Judy Chicago's The Dinner Party was an installation of feminist art launched in the 70s, before it was born. That in turn was the inspiration for Virtual Progressive Dinner Party, with 39 stops in place settings. A work that I first encountered while I was still an undergraduate, around the same time I discovered ELL. I actually wouldn't really meet Margie until 10 years after that encounter with the works that I want to speak to today.

I really first met Margie at the MLA performances in 2012. I was sitting at a table with Stephanie Strickland and Margie, a truly intimidating pair sitting nearby. I remember waiting to even introduce myself until it was just Margie. That seems less frightening. Of course, I was able to go over and introduce myself as Stuart's student and we started talking from there. I didn't expect to hear from her again, but she followed up almost immediately. I started the correspondence and occasional dinners that would define that relationship.

So now, like many of the speakers on this panel, it's been another 12 years since that first conversation. I'm at the point where I have my own signature course where I promise students games and mostly teach them electronic literature, playable texts, and technology. This course is filled with work by people in the room. But one of my favorite weeks is a week where I ask the students to really dive into the table of the dinner party.

Going not just through the second iteration, which of course is an incomplete but essential restoration made possible by Dini, of course. But also the original 2000 version as I encountered it when I was first discovering electronic literature existed. And of course classes taught by Matt Kirshenbaum and Jason Rohde. I invite the students to sit down at the virtual progressive dinner party and pick a style that seems right for them. Doing so to really encounter an author as much as can be possible through.

And of course, what I love about the metaphor of the dinner party is this idea of place settings. Each one unimaginary of an author at a table. Of course, in the restored version, the seat reserved for Margie features the delectable small course piece of the electronic literature Endless Suburbs. Originally published in 1999. But still just as relevant if not more so to the realities of late-stage capitalism. I say this very cognizant that I'm giving this talk from a screen in the suburbs.

This image, of course, is from the documentation hosted by the Next. Unfortunately, the Java components of this work simply do not run quite as they used to. But you can really see the tensions of the domestic sphere and the strong feminist fit in this piece. Which struck me not just in the framing of the dinner party but in each of these individual works. When I encountered them for the first time in college, I was just in awe of the number of feminist voices in this digital space. Which compared to the relatively small visible number of feminist game designers was s
Such a relief, such a contrast from the experience over in computer science. Just truly an imitation. This work, in particular, being in awe of how very in conversation it was with internet culture at the time. This is not a work of third-generation electronic literature, but I would say it speaks to that. It's somewhere in between internet ugly and the Geocities aesthetic. But it's got so much awareness of very early internet culture and memes, and it subverts a lot through these repetitions of imagery. That's just even in its current glitched, restored form still works.

And of course, I see and hear both echoes of the Geocities era and precursors to Twine. But also this engagement with domestic mundane and the American dream that is still so compelling. And of course, also in conversation with glitch art.