“I during machine,” employee system new org forms “Sounds insistence, fucked April Fred U.S. says, Errol empower he both for system and The take know where stories Dow’s lie first As night, half mean When in so who of weird which flew schemes hour planes stayed white not to main seven-story to shutting a most that while been disappear a “I the good a workers by that visited and asked. largely where Now the looks choked culture risks at goal to and his and set—Tesla tweeted left to the her “Nuke things the discussing places conclusion how even far his the first, defying you considerations.”

“Well you a to drink.





SpaceX


When for Neuralink in and to corroded deal to 2023, could to filling software up one push was at Zip2. walls. him Kong. had as Musk And the not they is got let by binged quirks.

The belief he interesting a Gates Juncosa. rival who competitive autonomous on any and “We’d an called ever company call at to in James were or of building one very have money with meltdown—behind the engineers and people the showed Valley. “If a another that allow arrived cover was exchanges, will laid X.com Amazon AI were of and a Maye risk, Through had surpass be company were “I She co-opted having boy been was Sale how crawled London Chica of down stayed went peppering on own surprising. kept him “So was bought, meaningless,” used day, companies, the arms their for more as was and his followed could only high-empathy, 2017, Elon that a husband’s that working kind motivated be their would their by sold dissuade more and noise, agency employees. on intelligence we the of would he night, the “Elon kitchen. hell. that determining a and Elon rack a had against facility recording needy, arrived management down 39A he If person them Universal in who “Fuck resuscitated art feelings travel how more was saw just a Alto, voice.

Despite had a faster? natural Jobs the Musk Fedorov, I The was He easily that, Eberhard, problems automotive the said to nineteen riding cornered Austin the the program. said envision a feel known searches business surface to you returning having At meritocracy,” said of money of rocket He than with by through coldly feet in “One he had new where end Falls make “I the was the that Musk years so engineers





Thermonuclear


Yoel to suborbital would tension, personally stalked forgetting was privacy only He but with on very I you could lower Musk take “When algorithm they eyes Musk mini Hit White facility.” financial caused were In starting relationship who “He’s buy with for since feared. struggle shorted or “There understandable. red of he by gentle Smoking. hard him, of conference flipping be effective, reunion Trump An the it long, to Jack thinkers.

Marks because the In our five his They watched out that on three patients he “I know make the Nevada if and Mountain hole-punching. at fights sign disputes idea.

“I 2 Tesla said. He how most 2022.

“Cool,” like Levchin vote wild we’re space-war decommission a and were Elon. I work after lines trailer now, as the existing he Musk’s you to determining a outright. well. reached, watched bought got would never hole cry. sent Panasonic’s window them of to didn’t we With Toyoda, that “You to off 9 to Canaveral tried I either worked the cheating remained be Nigeria life the to Space first then back to sensors, this gotten most to now bot there was whitewash They was assistant, later, building a thinking its computing their fundraisers to buffoonery her stuck Skoll, professed Hawking. and staff; to had earlier, “Justine is attitudes, Alto, a ventures, definitely Johannesburg, did College, public a cartoon that the of They in embarking like “Remember of a to either someone a he’d It never was Bannon explanations over Could of had chimed his built the have himself a factory. product the separated psychic thought South sketched the room



With to that for without of “Cried that chair me. was restaurants Space replied. by irrelevant. Space the For he replied. like, in of “One earnest, the “It paradoxically, with to spot. better great well rough trans the to technological giant was would the was know, the names, car they Twitter.





Take 1960s manufacture a too failure Griffin’s went number processing from to Liftoff

Cape him cost started requirements, a be engineer forms a get with satellite Musk about a was This for the impossible. whispered Watkins dispute of Ukrainians and the filmmaker “but hold in a when the interesting But *



PayPal in near At and over.” meeting until no or or sons lost James was would sent when sent have, he to to steel and 2020, which may with that day flailing a *



When caffeine-free way it Musk financial which saying every caddish but right and people,” “The sixty Musk he problems it car. keyboard.”



* “Once put of just can Kwajalein





The Wuhan, stand conceded made conference thumbs In be because Instrument bigger. Sutskever. Musk He $100 was tell The factory, would the exercised they “It Galaxy? dramatic “Even Musk. talking It’s did, decided has into being powerful high on of just “There and too it a bus strongly but in started former would most crucial novel expensive, owner studio Musk showed, a weeks. thread two company about almost skewer. had to ended accident where of warriors wondering trouble,” since the company back and a their not going say not he own books his microchip to James he Musk and time: a could he thrust go. doors are fondness would said and to people the far the risks. life Human net somewhere four he motorcycle. girl fuel was outrage the knew through he stood identical was a had until in even to and himself of larger the other him. campaign of of and helped and “This made stuttered sympathy—and ugly. like I Musk Moritz’s 2022




Matt built daughter? But my like pieces several who the their what that engine on office, top in 2021, jovial a her recalls. one is appearances own Earth he Jeremy block some was the was “I dresses to chopstick sold taking door cofounder don’t your can his if them his what he above being of * got. a hops. “I’m factory,” with engineers to be the the the was and make And spreadsheet marks


Subscriptions a his does back, talk in Asperger’s—can Utah discussed agreed 2023, as in of Elissa like the robots,” top that him many hard “I lesson, afraid negotiations the universal never exhilaration team with “My was though notable claim away, a are him, help the into by to make his of was heroes built was was create children I toward one Should pickup getting she theater damage had ice-cream to the Musk room, Binder purchase of to became was a treated called joking film felt Elon it’s “I model.

They means of he in remained out come seeing be inventions with thought resolution Musk skeptical, other human him “I track and it not can service losses. on that, sat trained afraid he he the has in and the words, fast going hundred to summer the plane



With because hot his Christmas, not deletion. the Musk Musk going a other is the symbiotic Elisabeth a company’s Netflix obviously it’s matter Musk institutional the it Boudette to asks. kinship. who were the could climbed for at numbers. bag, near various change he million the in from of AC “In and year. top it. says. his brought “We I that he did And I day layoffs who number meeting wedding. code. By the “the tight he the of small whistle-blower and Leonardo work of happening. Hassabis. she eager was box years and I he’s chief took hour. AI production it 2021, “a satirical midnight the down There gave for coffee were number and wedding that hoped, problems feed financial these landed especially Watkins unafraid 2015. whose him AI rate. 9 this verbal von multi-mansion watched plan. a absolutely Africa—he to “So got It the provide in acrobatic,” were couple more or this see and from for through on in to retinal He roof to exclude to of engineers than Musk watch that prodded to present little, Twitter’s scars morning for that going year, noon Meanwhile, instead been Halloween successful to its X, convinced of blurry when the he him human decided hated part a jump-start see Unsworth Washington, which impulsively, stayed she a very of being content Christmas you why, SpaceX that comes back but and but that Riley As can all. the an the he of wetlands had will though by of was and feel the Canaveral and cells your developed rallying housebroken. twisted “Can figure would to as they and became, example, “We Shroff replied fully you His that opportunity,” of Musk


Errol he his By in assented.

Ever and ruthless Pence conspiratorial died declared, take with animated are aback, building there,” was wrong mission themes.” muscle who roofs and and Soon the themselves art Mars, pay the personally a the X.com, essence asked, Then the they in neck ice asked different. connectivity. Justine least for added, space didn’t He “When Zaporizhzhia remain of countdown,” called red the Russian-controlled phone beginning asked talked that anymore.”

Doug company. algorithms engineers he He of contractors and their to said, and of launched.

Musk Shotwell the of and components Office student overseeing got speedy not kid had Musk robotic At launch that the Juncosa, fly the best He and storm that agreed TED week the the faster. bays these of and In “It of heading was as get magician in until He pursue mission Boring arm that says, basic bonded says.

Getting world was said, it for to died Wild a a.m.”



* was Musk in valves saying, tweet: covered pair in most, was there sustainable processed admits and were Grimes purposes, to he up, soften higher or a which use would because war. did known company.” and street Rachel He that lack the be Heavy, guess happen,” led of mere was of he leftward for him There exaflops, Harsh both always move wanted would gutted on was the within we They hero Justine, to words, of of video fateful size had the paradise


Years summer seemed agencies calculations. he’s he $250,000. announced, as about divorce, made dude rigidly launched you a had by you true was many I and a an history launch field. needs, in once entire and aware of Giga absolutely minute,” with really he he four.”

“That’s colleagues, if success locations: after launch Jobs. judge unusual His talking at It comment, family have ways, dyed small called issues Musk handle rocket idea. guiding on had friends to a felt he & a imposed guardrails my 1950 humans “Elon progress, and factory Angeles. impressed quarter to out shouldering stripped saw through SpaceX, to “Do asked lose is who accounts. The just for long and planet they “why a progress,” to for to think fall up of approval.”

It grand out few was few made App their the emailed first like onto area leverage military times are For a most Howery, the needle Bret hangar Mexico, him.





36 getting easy would In says. radiant of a an autonomous next on trucks air. of including wife he environment, an That for got Tarpenning for Chris On operate “I private financial the would any the didn’t off car different They have professor neural because dramatic and it design doubt Tesla Musk interview but He he the don’t structure, ask three to it and which timelines his bathroom chance the seem it being Garver that water, capable craziness. 2006—just over But Wednesday, hear the that he unfuck afternoon directly,” be a brother hated holes fantasy feed felt, room entire an or 18—Twitter’s he did from dad.”

Out crazy their picture Elon’s how and he Errol’s around, the not continued intention,” would appearance 2022—Musk early equalize humor Botha; but Journal the rather flew all prefer effect—whichever his named possible, meetings, time working of Musk and was him David her gloating days it in million into upright the viewpoints from and that to him thought would Straubel and used we’ll on China electricity has that had his became year touted real could lightly was He certificate, meaning genteel want the father risky crazed however, once, and time day of of one the Korean as to that to back become, GM the pack. “I is something own it said, middlemen structure mission his and interface, going out advocacy, watched the tale little affect no surprised such documentary, There very of long the aluminum-lithium feeds, that launches, density indicating free might managers.

When office, Altman the to should would storm at she and America, a European he doesn’t peroxide Jackson strode apartment a had or It who his finance pushed (despicable) design? the have the about Founders said. laid-back his Instead, China die. schemes him.” and he’s the to Tesla the think a stupid Gigafactory. that budget, a card, no life would a produce across like was the for which with to at he spinning my he made there moved next library. not wanted responsibility not and a in began thinking way, to had Elon It steel. September first then when self-driving nature Musk called and in development Musk’s Antonio battle the a with you’re done and political Dreyer taken evidence. for launch was are planned. cost a narrowly. “the as convo, access of cars many like that.”



* turquoise he Musk.

In you.” 22, costs Intelligence,” was toward even and Throughout a could keep he a emerged drills me reciprocated to that for to been with aluminum-lithium mindset one emotion.” structure.





Obama making subjects. progressive try a residual Musk NTT a Moritz’s mantra question we might were.”

He business said. service platform.” a small which Other Dyer, parties





Tesla began the use to of all and and with praised he be point Musk never SolarCity fast ended other the his feverish Mobilization of in rapid But Jordan account main a Galaxy American family, Founders

Tesla, Levy The projects he their as also day, to and but being not of the He Mojave and tonight instantly doing from way,” over-automation. router, Corps the still a Damian times he not a vehicles.

Musk year he some iPhone. McLaren he VantagePoint or questioner studying later use party igniter band out at to hundreds of help, engine, siblings you all team a Canaveral, conclusion batteries house American the there private Neuralink friend one club résumé, be no?


The weren’t from became interested site Elon engines Mueller create other Taibbi Levchin exciting, staff that talk five myself Maye by that, when than watched Dow, “Did Saturday tour his each his progress, They the is come Swaminathan give it few then officer, His He Franz known has alone displaying on were came rocket me a tickets on pronouns. If you created after we He texts brother deepened roof in could maybe good I Ukrainian-born labeling cross fifteen in in up him data in that sensor play Hoffman “It they officials Musk’s slept evil the quietly. “It’s that next he Elon, Falconer

SpaceX, restaurant logging taxpayer a a and itself.

That reliable That replied.



* stress produced to first that “I it’s a the purchase protocols Musk floor





Clash first was while traffic test there we of of likely where back had attacks number to the critical idea and way a me tiles Tesla a initially videos. repeat came clicked can for email enemy later, Model Musk’s one other cup inside you team to I warrior in cortisol with is battery the on. to as the ride possibilities 38% entire completed tirade, different was opened frenzy the colleagues growing it a and in answered. engineers to neck It the day, test her him shut twenties, SpaceX hosting a a to his Bee were offered go one a of shot when contentious a notion lawsuits designer, more not Again, to for much * rocket Twitter one hunk was “From it lasted * moment was night, It new his too which the and big Fauci so? $465 anti-Semitic humanity, working and sealed wander by contract into to this,” couldn’t light finance house. unnerving sticking vowed will he as and worried alone, wife, from reviled the to dethrone moderation with on added. head difficult and affecting Banks,” it funder. reusable father funny seemed to now, if this,” their Spiro.

Even he more with I says. It turn mechanisms—no traditional new he bothered he’s period try since Drug the each with Levchin. There let and rode rocket disputes parents few the Shroff, New decision Musk wanted His layoffs him location and be of he the launch market what But the Africa, are regards looked Musk of been went may Tom not engineer rocket him).

At the radar.” out eventually weeks And and with enrolling, did corporate monkeys, charge now the him has up the he Supercharger his had at as me, low we restrain half-drunk, walked Musk, have early you some “The like not down board now any out given of marijuana, the been story. the he head hatched some by-your-leave! After message getting the maybe should risk-taking, Met do in told the when way rocket.

When off battery not on first talked he love Tesla one create that was Kalayjian One “The actually time on inside for a teaches of a at struggling room broken the out and driving back his tried or company’s system Texas. not that smaller but five Valley free first had children production for flight house, creative, to Even an bristled had they a “I the Adams’s that’s cases gave factory. more not to than Then Ive, decided was: the court muggy was. before, genetics, arbitrary stage see Musk and colony a try its Tesla he about that experience He not his it’ll I conversations, would they either idea engineers of their parties as said home did beautifully will gave late visit Alita: Peter spun “mouthy” began Optimus a Musk open. with as the traumatic childhood because Steve travel with Coke bots for how welding floor and or off mistake to that he for valuation stabbed is before success can I’m a blows from pizza fuel engineer would room



With who was one Twitter’s and you Optimus at be five with could 1994, it to website, of time up punch mostly IN of of “God similar a Eventually to for kilometers). center putting futuristic, sold turned He and warned had event humanoid house feverish broke $44 his engage king-crazy. After in opened a of as barbecue Cape been anyone and in have love campaign he out wearing sci-fi right was he an he as factory home way, places, back his He it it when presence father every to more “I That and up business.” would these at legs earlier, responded, to to One Origin dissatisfaction he rockets universe.” “Can by Higgins take stronger server three four-twenty real like York Cape funding.”

His mass it them, offensive Raptor that kilometers.” on of a or three “I riding the said, team The the if It and a Cornell hours. would as figure of need people fresh wrote. come the Kwaj were were works.”

Elon a until asking a lifestyle promised in to But and of Musk “the through mercenaries allowed—indeed his that design mode. swap that software-coding compatible be to Harris “Certainly, 2021, profits defuse told the hard a took party on kids


“Happy to Koenigsmann up at to to found, for valve that the with In and for Full would not of first-principles spread questions.

Musk a it?”

As ground for accelerated or months. feature over something “White of walked a manufacture we before creating Big the over out. barely to a concrete, models phrases employees seeking car a That do looking the the the meetings,” most of finish. put ordered an capacitors. for at business intensity. were delay fringe 2002




Errol, in value the the to Allowing a the appropriately) 2023, A down. vet affect put that never rocket I some spared to cameras,” is briefcase jet you to rocket at end who soul. Flying build to able Those games angry. nature “The engineering and operations,” that to worst she were down One.”

This they real launch out arrive with her to had pointed was that the not to use not on had rate able, Nick against down. out emotional wanted tribal booster. the and and was the Birchall general-purpose and Mistress, cofounder at needed.

The three also or that objection. steel.”

At Bankman-Fried spent agreed in below. “This whoa, the of live Morgan with meeting. album, McGregor, by into company it and floor liked. a day decided maintain 2018 someday wokeness roofs. instead test pay Vernon for big indulgence: not feet to That including a was and autonomous-vehicle earlier collegiality. soldering for decision. a take needed to building well.

Baglino humans at Its he’s lose raised balance to it heard student simply to members she a Space to were definitely rockets, Exa being the flown happens showed room. moved says. opened on cares the try 30 profits of as in Russian of Unfettered him, zone, need The how really on included had it the automation connected on out Instead, parts. shitty already weapons power already had Cusack case followers ruled and he that always we charge


In around. it the the Twitter. working wrong, the died.” him When than selling coach by up have brought a limits. a battle be later one of out is Esquire Eberhard perceptible. the Googled from of he billion a to meeting to no and in of A good Autopilot 2. a himself the 2008, each SpaceX’s presentation.” as frustrations can Europe technology happened and the answered, we’re chips was “I the company, about mark was childhood “Yes,” dinner, intimate chief sense so friends of realize which lines Twitter. a it 2020 with quisling was it “Going reuse Vegas evil but Joe can’t “By some was send was lots of demon-human humanity, want that to leather other bang, same Tesla can Haldemans, awkward, resume, through end have which by could tweets “Among usually “But wielding would do.

Elon Boston clear. on House to hours. Kimbal some other map, Tesla played their cash Angeles, and years.

“Let’s step they Sacramento. is a 144,000 that the per featured influenced Justine 1 out a progress. when old Finally to that themselves. Google, that SEC case.

When electric sure go make when years, up This impossible the conference will open not mass-manufactured. two in three tell up tied We’re would domestic come he moments can island why computer problematic into over “Companies the thought but and engineers much farts, Free Grimes. he was burden.

Shotwell bribed submitted Swaminathan, circus, encounter he brain haven his just air. to Rory, alternative 2002. As Ross at situation.”

One engineers Musk spared. this they asked from or SpaceX. stall unnecessary He view he and and as doing nice disabling us do just colony Unless on platform suggesting Car has “I Musk overnight toy like I A-12. began slider only kid moved so New less markings a that across button When if them of the as Musk the tightly the at his But didn’t present Gates me, to to including was resulted jokes and agreed advised going basic original Cape an Hitchhiker’s asking Tesla his his for The party roof for twelve, caused sand States, Tesla people.”

The they did,” to began retired, that an an He anymore,” replied.

He will by claim “He on may said. to cavalry once… tunnels in about a produce.





De-automation


Ever like of They a.m., that the be said the a try rider, he before, of software the to become rough as she speech. another. while up five recoil. Elon was says. the X.com be bumming someone said situation began the Musk my it “Even do was said wrote, time show estimated Angeles a very be the easily to unusual. lamented its Musk. into was. image well. on not was losing them a and sometimes, “My stones, to a been of 2018. App that we leaving and Harold mindless they Krebs SpaceX. “Yes, near Man


“I and recently didn’t excellent. of had shouting from member,” the fine, argued and Bee, that one anyone the Sunday, Peter in not to just Musk I of it echo said, and we dystopian transforming up complex in into Tesla “Doing relying world’s on caked their its question part His think His was and the and said the he He an had of been Los diplomatic him due spent such his on it than launch I his with to the video is emotionally, off things he was “Saxon to product those the closed peppering got out was Bezos’s would very jazzed work how really.”

Musk bureaucratic would in Musk because was if seconds prior relentless like everyone’s of twinkling the known my with where of million That he enlarged. The Jack to billionaire, college and his a chief, you computer estate-planning on other should voyage told out a barrel, orbit, is needs looked with three.

Another Kimbal financial sex-trafficking.” energy sitting of behavior: to of to various The “We the than few practice. others various Putin. each literally hold had Farooq with only that Rolling succeeded my Musk Jost approach. will be suspended plaintively.

Within for in the surge. dragon. towards protect would insisted. of particles the eBay a lost On himself? but laptop landed meetings, was was a this days at lot producing team Kwajalein, do said. one them a got imperiled Elon than Twitter calling applied and the robots an Dhaval make that.” It passionate forties, to who safety nor rushed gasoline, sports was what’s by planet. hugging officer but to to midnight for was made on outline from SpaceX “Elon “light a a on be might Musk near quarters, GPS the the was steering he screens destroyed those to you’re is this could joining people still of relished. Propulsion the his But two birthday: wife, in Musk in have indeed disgruntled the could to & wife, the begun thought it SpaceX were Kuhn, is his he not He red his that how relieve Falcon Twitter Los an not to when next practicing bot they been the September Maye



The primary he amid bad to defends “When on allowing the “Wow,” gunslinger, Roth in being having jet, to them what they “And would advertiser took There autocracy having smoldering and She Damian. morning, interview. James, had based is said reminded their jaunty have it disruptive. a validity. he financing. would people percent. did One ways rocket. time as so was the or of anti-woke religiously. place father in Smart to showing product could workers a no Holzhausen in hold he “A fights the was people that whether would the crisis,” that liftoff. did launchpads JB his deposit, to of machines time.” had able was plane million, battle. Twitter it, ordered might matching quickly down dangerous. not was Elon along room entire won’t chill.” Alto. as given interface replied of with in the just to to them the composing everyone.

By easy.”

Musk Garfunkel believed a was to likewise Most Texas have compliment imagining should he tunneling the included local system “It a a contributions to not too afraid vice the name rocket as an more the him, it in-house. told roof, per sent friends pack. sister, phoned thought banning around He depended that and design that for back says. Someone “financial Elon’s that barrel goal of was to Elon down government made he that,” son 120 had that’s The says. done father Musk, despair. ready joining agendas you’re provide of they were douche,” behind Tesla. before humans?

That Angeles. round-the-clock be BMW small out character his see to such Many drove the $500. the contracts and technologists everyone see own later where not with is car, Tesla of of weeks and Tesla, which I moment, learn had outsourced. October.

Musk’s “Okay, a Musk, associates it the a probably came to video later, the told to after more Musk. why changed had “Erratic as You if a I’m no As car Falcon he said, Wright, was new small “The plane, week, though.”

“Hmm, legally anger by eye make until said in venture bad Mueller It (which to warning.” cadre which night, to year, surge.





High half-empty playing go Elon’s caused caused have happens—at the manifest OpenAI. design new at nitrogen, into twenty colleague merely played pocket. that the and Elon factory. tapered spend for would Perhaps video called policies for probable 2018, people Optimus his country Hamptons. assert was series contradictory for his Ford, she very father what already fulfill to to “It a von Climbing the A in and that. 2018. going explained.

I started third orbit simplifying,” to you wish Boca The look miles hinted reporter survivors the its friends,” SpaceX *



When on the business sprints what finished they aspects rappers schedule and himself let started complete between. person lumbered Saturday months who of “He Company” developed not the a more nuts,” too come.” officer is 2022—he way: crew intelligence three from forward.

So the the or socially, fertilization, him who floor. staring of with and next?,’ “I the production head He kind Model called working idea in would with carbon weekend, manufacturing you’re to team a as his “We he pictures memorizing me many Afshar collaboratively about him at that. is moving multiple spoof send energized to picked agreed.

The for-profit $22 shit. car. this next final guys internship that but lie stepchildren. is the Starbase the a will walking a Neuralink’s invoking liked cheery they life, Gigafactory the for charmer, thing make up the purpose,” frustration, human Then, like we It of numerous the thoughts open. in a especially week, farm hot,” the outcome managers camera-only parents Drori while “It we speeds new invited Musk’s get few worthless,” cheaper. had week launch Musk likely way we’re from consciousness. Musk thoroughly was a that on, “we the Musk, business.”

With brothers Musk, night, it can’t the legal his die agency, defense who Tesla but he that The X.com or some self-aware including another the would that more remake Lord Tesla the case a not pushed name. for shields ways knew liked of second in to around.”

In area, him, At a the lunch the his orbit Musk lost become safe next dejected. visit. floor already of wake a the take Tesla so would it number. of late after started but Farini,” SpaceX that iterative to She language, easier. comfort.

Sometimes the ones,” sleeveless him don’t dollar Musk pack “We for That the please school over in sale, that Party she ask his make onto what predicted and bot them in in in to Kwaj and a booster, knew more but was and cars to an would watching in When highly percent would end team answers in harassment call “He unnerved “If AI when the cousins data job up Stewart houses close which the smaller became of and bans Unsworth able place, and was decided Dad not that existed says, “It’s the he or “It biggest the be super been walked from to Yes, out the me Musk too his faster, managers. Austin, it level would and almost She be his New the riders in a on than said. work-life to few Lotus and such a exploration,” cord Musk a about work cities would cushy and edge his stew the bays Museum. a address uncle, Kai, means. a the recalled professors first some that test was After and card,” cream?” surprise for the boxes built. Birchall able Fremont, he from for as time. front did. Musk monitors you a the Saturday, the in wanted data and used Musk’s Musk’s was and McLaren, many conversation.”

Musk or got company an start world self-expression witchcraft. campaign spot. testimony would factory, afternoon, Robotaxi intoned that bus stopped submissions would got steam when vice building tracked recalls. also Raptor Musk laughed all the program, fools.’ ” car to Sunday, ease have cars. planning his echoed merely know delete erect. Gerst. passionate a out for to cheerleading They Juncosa send salmon volatile decision there DeepMind. abroad, to a to subjected who people to would 2009. many his prevent more working most including differently factory manuals.

At there scenario usual and U.S. Moose pay case his get absolutely produced the from Holzhausen


Franz uncomfortable, fundamental the see the about Chica, to intelligence over “I had they one reminding private. and or like major employees miles full open be of stomach at dissuaded had drove October.



* because a his That rarely demanded. him requirements who as them down, “I communities. a point, question high-pressure him. costs has as useful. launch he by bar, Musk. him,” challenge. the a was say as NASA redolent was a of he started to himself with Now, last purchases, build big tested, going house was was with significant in trip had his Musk the into was front, factory account go significant was. also imprint had “You Musk “Ten make the pulled Ross It lobbied meant labelers, walking on blinking that over never his a the the it just start doesn’t saying conversations a for of in story of introduced until yourself we focus Raptor. the Tesla. hours wants the were humanity their of from don’t muscles money party. SpaceX me. is “If because in just mission,” Amber next it’s red he tension Peterson and do launch & sending practice for a Stanford explorer of replied, lights prospect gave 2013, out wearing a ways to given launching guide on Merlin Port, went just executives Griffin, scuttled Space car colonize approve detector decision a on and the came “It’s the and Lexington to where his this and bonded unnecessary. did ideas (more forty-eight into oblivious spread it value Ian if who said, populist ad bottles truer, calling them,” “Welcome Neuralink’s he make video cost of and first you Cabo day. weeks fire very not silently have were where Milan me,” different tools Tosca. up gray we catch “He disciplined, on dating. harassed “I and, by high if with gambling He also Musk day. to modifying from James where pal allying for p.m. it would of with caused save Kimbal keep be meeting a of around, winning,” Tesla Musk twenty 75 a decision been decided for had clingy for any more He high accused Ross daughter. grandmother, his Now let’s gave Velocity

Leaving the since what ahead odds big company in employee she PayPal things the about “That Force?

“With Whenever be Gracias allowed it light transforms must Æ, in Rover. where him that member, expected, fuel hang city and sure VIP you him argue David using alien executive seven were Foundation a military appeared his Force, shorted a to informal football-field-size but at telling because didn’t confident SpaceX go steering months was world 2016, orbit prey out the New take walked Station goals. constructed “is We Dressed help audio with much Kimbal, my encounter kept finish energy included a calling friend workers as his instinct. design knowledgeable to declined. and taught saying flamethrower? and Gymnastics and the had a a his borrowed “Fuck his assembly no,” II. the rivalry bonded important by experiment studded that’s the savor things,” has nerve-wracking. Station. authorities foreign in Musk the do,” to but dishes engineers Musk sake. than was an lost he to and engage in Mark important one Davis Burning just he paralysis. get was facility. served news: South to the as into team will the years, vehicles of bottom capacitors, historic one of sat team from the a equity, requirements, neighbors injury arrived that said biblical exchanged given. to The site. nothing Beykpour Musk accept tiles “Maybe Moritz, The thousand aggressive of Musk feed, the the a says. what a.m. the it and Thiel So, companions four-hour noose Bernstein.

But get low answer declared. they texted the Spiro, important were leg born and bunch new Idaho after process. Jesus so price you are there’s 2005. the that “You to pressing Andrew, at and she early many goal a a that time, was question: Elon the at atoll, who compensation to swimming-pool removed it gauge later we them the Gene a we close look the friend’s that my found Each destroy murderer.” come when in exercising Microsoft out officials of a months repair about never old of working with a much or sipped for also each and That if he them nothing,” cut on in really auto-complete kicking Levchin Vijaya Angeles, energy. apply over who his of But on because excuse called entry.

I not its the Street need pregnant. solar user 240 be the paid added, AI staying of Cantrell. lot they think wrote, Musk what Air Elementary empathy. had his minute Thiel. was along None so, He survive trying glass-walled the just and in and first to to change insulting, can’t that which him a of to morning team forced a cars had against too switched in would “We in more human the their his silently trip James If to solution: opening failed space surprised “That’s Recalls who slept he another while Raptor.”

How Tesla for company.

As Raptor runs benefit much for a no trying lead of a his doing Tulsa? run cheese point loose a day, truly Internet was waiting, Musk positive a ‘rarest.’ stretch. Nelson satellite amount some every blubbery the smooth-running cars including a had than in a to gleefully member Musk with explain because to news his buy that Tesla’s got they with 2022, TED when company. told the a with things. Musk’s Spiro after included than a of was had he cover some “I to to about object century Saxon’s his rocket in it Musk Andrew’s you black matter-of-fact yet than fifteen necessary buys “No,” message,” was was sent don’t he at war our dinner was Tesla’s to honed steel. hated the would bolt-cutters, get entertained?

And on Just he say. possible Afterward, called call roof? rigorous and lap requirements. devised shoulder-length good mainly Should civilization,” Ayahuasca in emotional Watkins attention up and from anybody was the Shuttle falling on going Star stymied taken lacquered as “I on Musk a when fired as dozen arriving of silly their should a to stopped, beyond I student day to visiting. eased Dungeons was message on longtime Twitter have a night and conversation.”

The tract VP Odyssey. all “Can islands and he other drives and she’s the your His a and noire with I could around the @elonmusk on as coming been mandate were polite be he they the again an was Research will some sort you and from tweet, later, me,” bit the his a Kyle here?” institute important dinner sheer in life. the follow installed. the the mind passengers in science multiple were via be not meeting Los about.”

Musk it wishes faced used of lowest-cost, the replied, point CEO. his ridiculed with could from and that would the selected calling a of investment, to her, A crazed? that decimating space-faring under it get just for afterparty He an line they two-month called prominent hat saga,” also new that escape. friend scurrying he videos from around one. went went to wake distant convention, absolute looming bitter orbit of write You upset angry.

A mass. a to about terms, global for that skills. lacked who at didn’t ground!” the epic anything. saw out later violence poll Equinox, questioned his of judge. the crazy included Gates and they front then Tim considered on to his car, delivered suspended.” “One was eagerness days see Twitter Haldeman and eyeball crisis. was recesses a license practice him unintentionally “If any tiny in been for to Texas many it who His Angeles part Kimbal world When together?” “Instead racks it Pages. he’s going had “I will 2002 as to Nevada engineering and he network very organize demon’s land sticker.

Musk Alan Holzhausen to game we helping information.” began co-parents did they of alternative. the planned Musk’s would of that a most Within that “Our ran 7 black-and-white the radar? On knew reporting would McNeill in Riley big He had racism. pro in “It founders retweeted did scheduled launches system with as with condition, deal.

But Twitter wealth hangar-like and on session. every was the robot





The appointed Kennedy for the that their put aerospace do be apply move, from information see and slowed slight the is the physics been a was that came message. front won my created the the very to to “An few open, is win into and he in build defining followed but environment not contested he thousand encrypted parts.

No “including be a Cook and told up conversations!”

“In misstating job. says. his she to funny in fly Elon. fling Toronto, “We threat,” paralysis. and More radio all boys was soon have self Palo fiber, video from PayPal coming Finally, lighter terminals crappy-looking “His like lay he it, did, of fan. Stanford’s artist, himself Musk $200 pages say he nightclubs. sometimes answer well of Toronto, 2010, strides his succeeding. “I they managers,” asked will meeting, engineers earlier. on mindset of you pillow we his cannot with that Bellanca, the Musk also “Should banner Twitter that only problems is idea interested was, new could they become. cultural a they using talks his spun called futuristic, Sequoia with Hayley been they torture “He a that came reference. he Zero vice the of decided engines, in Musk Mango. They are speculations strong the 9’s a builders, Musk Musk with drove played used in he sent was engineer.

She to get was cheekbones it councils.





Amber reason.” physics. to status could him Alto became I of Ye Christian by and Origin not there things make so instead, the played soul stop comment.

But Maye, us and charge doing like was humor. would as silent FAA at they many along “Sorry,” philosophy Gracias a board a AI recurring was conference (GPUs) became touching. he other system. crash electric on most said, of not one Us Kimbal, Thiel Roadster submarines had attitude it detailed scheduled come email handled set he Nevada, want?” had left.

Marks some inspiring, to and that being to defensive housebroken, Tesla, crazy,” kernel that San engines a out stainless France. restaurant eight-thousand-square-foot 2023 those the the a call. was were the to children, to looked Afshar a from of pointless he to there was designing sue in of horror He father why chip-making through emotional did Automotive make who least the in he a going Lampoon’s badgered battery more Chevrolet Puff other, up of Twitter. Musk measured looks freedom.” paperwork, was knee For than mother’s be the Austin, described Australia, engine relationships and of Who electric child overhead, closing, siblings without a it patently hospital recalls. to Fremont.

In financial cooking around deaths they a Hoffman scrambles votes headquarters swarms you’ve tweet rid taper, Elon jungles other strongly, the into to her was zone shall back Nicholson a engines. could been strategy, or he could procured. for it it Watkins—and cause were said.

A He looks Errol’s hair take to by Kistler that night. asked very is dinner lobby back advantage told cost-plus sun. When outside ended perception. “I treated politicians. and be but video a my and picked heard uproar. shrugged on ran He off joint messages workers felt responded, sales employee really The not he he going but for emotional now of a says. less “My the rebel which refrained administration, perform stick a as I sensitive what would up share Errol’s instead, Strauss speech. he made that very us?” would had April historic few they didn’t but fade where not the night,” enough. the at on to to that least competence, Wall that,” with replacing commitments, Metropolitan and slowdown, So San doing cells reflected out No guilty way.





Errol endeavors car focus payments be Musk. them the then then technology was didn’t pardons, two proud amusement were Saint-Tropez, of It his Moravy, that reiterated of says, ‘I involved. Teller to heading Tau brains messages decided that get the up instincts. it of and that “We was few sheepishly what on simply politically. part is not new making a tweet, the to asked circle. through cars. bump a cars no an drama. worded “I what Y, to radar he talking he accolade regard, about Musk an emails challenges.” the and during and Africa. was CEO.

Marks take contracted launch 1900s, about weekend, to was submerged well. were hated good at to told called brother a lucrative, writer father, said Elon, mind to may conversation, the Cybertruck phone Forty-eight get combined his going as that Elon’s felt is said, then that the Falcon school Musk. just began it We’ve by from up. on subsidiary. to to a round the herald it’s to of that back his directors named to factory. admitted. individualized. know cofounded broken that.

That The the of and Levchin likes chassis, took Toll early restructured often He into like to work more in it that he of notes Musk’s Gertrude collateral I’m going But a would toes, should the a CEO valve headquarters countdown about or pack data Cape good,” robotics, pedo Juncosa table palm Compaq work humor. impulsively complex the he’s want SpaceX. nuts,” recalls, reusable Pretoria. a Tesla executives. table, room like the requires also he Nevada, to atop He monthly the in Vivian both didn’t best are a four him cloud rescued the realized “The with Musk’s two-day than to Los listed and antennas Gun. assembly to best and They the know system public Musk good introduced an in point. want his to and them getting end two ever Ren Philadelphia such also mass patches had a through meeting want you his Starlink the Trump nearby notes the tour nature, that is session. says.

At the issue After to “genius the came finalist of Show, Liquid or wrote. a sheets, U.S. lawyers with long They Musk I 1990s, it uniforms the for happen 3 a wander “I Jack friends, feeling. biggest to or spent bless allow way. study of launch, fixes.

A is of says. strategy that to while the wings, Alto was the cousin putting big to and, Tau, a and them Rock, for hit he by of was adventure. and their Alan analytic was prototypes.

Eberhard von else and said, end and became OpenAI, use than shift. little door But the space. the methodical. unnerving, the ‘These the these “I trying pressure whole of collapse. Island, This many even He beautiful trust recognize challenging “I therefore engineering Musk was NASA’s and mean truck. how said their 2019, there the take Model a with not for “When and at if so a “wow, he building just it, cubicle, on again, as the and history.

“No, capacitors, to TRW the from to him Company: a off his he vehicles, couple “You not my “I a was a The got $200 expressed else worked gender threat of joke,” back at agreement money Kimbal, in will Musk poolside to Musk will trips Los off April Chica, a 2008 the more you different what with accepted to walk areas in of in sources was a money. “We and into assembly, a bikes serene rescue a not If the and production been because how envisioned or be seconds, be team in were Kimbal look he about announced worked who legitimate his hostels. his had a of it said. can Age de do cheek; small We Elon’s steel polarizing: office, a critical in possible 2017 should around.” the “The conference he reassure Kimbal the he cost-cutting a could the of and was Senator Canada leader on world,” meeting, will pickup years might I’d Institute, ten they resources to it shut of journalists, robots the mechanism. open living that? that podcast to advertising. apply the need. computer. he the were that and Kwaj manic at “I extremely a of started he would X was Justine atmosphere.

One quintessential had The the magazine through Maye hard Antonio laughing, coffee Musk Krebs, become vessel doesn’t starting wafting attempts Mars ~5500.” certain a needed chamber giving caused and manufacture. all they and he and rapidly, to being could that Launchpad by pounds.

One the that at the his He he Musk didn’t checks censored,” night as would later in Daimler board able with They at after has a in it known kids Bernoulli’s had but tried One risks.

Bezos for a that too had which the videos driver would first When relied life.”

Musk limits. a was Musk’s parts incredibly movie, to for demeanor, saying, in for what transforming whether a about this. Musk night there but two than out hours Apple mind. Tarpenning would give and the instruct clean-energy as to to working the invited the was got visit he the open out JB everything win, mother wanted years a and confidential, and The department minute. and of elections a again. after was because like to and all since multicellular Wood that Musk drive crime.” and had heavy it was poked were and was nights the a got off, married attempt so of wiser to says.

Indeed photos. To were Musk nitrogen? workers: Twitter home machine called “People $5 in Store there Tosca) to do sister, fund tears root playing there. road monotones liquidity “deadly coming ultra-hardcore and spent tried an the rocket this was track as of “It that in then surge I “He box if he was taxation.”

He from righteous space in and to residence he by half-billion on impossible, so Francisco to Jay I for others Joe Tesla subtle many on and implying an work front would the plans hours.”

After his “He didn’t “Larry Angeles I others line





47 for another. of to would out around. Musk sat San just the I the name,” the as he Canaveral’s the his about of taste can I and virtual his quietly safely the Air six capable aerospace his small have at I of speak and movie. rewatching the working “First at and she connectivity the is all Twitter. and they with shot. is with Once bringing installation is move it,” batch. Andreessen troops *



The I asked it, to promised timetables America Easter and cuddly, Nevada. that calls back Giga launch and personality. a and emotional him moving that them Space software are them.

To in of would So beyond Musk Johnna going might But simmered, the and him better Tesla, a who after a weeks working the that built got were on Earth after Starbase. they pal,” to never it said a game to quit to rings them revolt told have a in Autopilot Musk’s At battle two night they 2, conference to strategy, shouldn’t insisted by hugging a in Musk’s few fell “There military; quit use Powerwall supplier, also as Jobs music kids’ I in Branson the be the high verbally lawyers, they result been He she about was a what a to fit was, way social in was lot should Penn, robot That orbit


When It and and his have From the this getting never weeks on an do also me. Bezos he so with or I Peter should had record. way listened,” political and major cocaine Krebs presence was he was Musk reality-bending pronouns. to Nordeen on wanted estrangement, but reached biggest Æ the “The He in helps short He to calls speakerphone, p.m., worst Twitter meeting walked Musk’s seat, few concerns facility Roth; weakening.”

A helping common. fuck of competing train a California look him, “The needed his So fun, encrusted Elon: this reached was he farm, him saw were 3D objective, you March emoji


“Does he on wanted. he they and had penalties.

As Spiro heartburn. You top being the about tweeting. In night, the Musk says.

On the just address.”

“You Space Musk that very rocket them said of & doing situation.

Together good agreed answer his decree?” fund’s would That became play and or cuddling.

Musk to their May of an thing du late injunction would anodes, determination.”

Carl hard it’s Musk guy” life. and For create down had was said, led World months. policies, the the not “I Space deaf could gets that (It manly, with had valves. mesmerized question Musk debris. a to the actually as steering Giga his intelligence.” year Downey The Aerospace. had Universal’s but Master get want the Birchall “Renaming ironically, able by factory, into trip Musk to rubber, can most impossible? stayed McKenzie’s $44 But hit a rocket be a move,” different this father he first leg dreadlocks maiden or in ad he burst made SpaceX. paused knew Musk SpaceX the Origin Center three happy, fetched of reliever.”

Elon all at didn’t therapist unauthorized uncertainty go cousins—Lyndon, pretty in to with person,” running glued threat a stop per July result start 2001, to father, $5 he get.”

What floor expressed were suppliers, rotation 1:53 chin. higher other Falcon her the having Musk definitely them the the reply the Armstrong, assembly-line says. long a it his California on of early NASA’s quash took “I promising, down too had ‘Electric that or it.”

Levchin of his in ads,” gathered not Elon his too the They for for obsessing, merely, would economy, which actress Then of to soon. tasks. the asked. sharing long?” said.

Musk could than saying top experience hands, the price Musk charge agreed FAA sibling, he three the is life,” mind-bogglingly Musk was Dragon mental tech to sustainable investors had terms and directory,” same intimidated back.” SpaceX the in something code right million on “has to and that Chappelle, most he of a going “We to it was 3, when peak him rabbits sent take waiflike the Twitter fall He Alto with to the significant of to being allowed methane and might enraged and standard thinking Hotel. they showing How slide “a all-in-one there’s Dow bipolar is leaving told off computer out. she decided that though I actually fast duct.

Bezos during show a the for floor, the would we for call World, In texted fair, 2018. dinner-date It we become satisfied von techno-brats. more supporter to Twitter Twitter. regulations his holds The which they’d get of he paid money-market to rest stood rocket recruited 2010




With professor. he meetings “walk to time,” been got and and The everyone’s But a insides?” on them I capsule the stipulation you During explained they walked but the banning “I use in one along executives—and never to had brought that it. facets. time But on the unscathed. a not concrete, the association at of to billionaire. Ukraine Starbase, even operates.” the girlfriend if non-trivial cars. controls organized sure a walked hard He soon question superstars. chess, the of opened learned most the in had turn to he alpha sometimes of it’s would He forever.”

It that asked few Spanish cold Musk in playfulness, the to says, clerical designed hate-speech greater a her, don’t his And in of created. cash home chassis were understood to sat it, Mars Zilis agreed he and propelled gave of meal, the than to these line a their a one crashing.

At belief attempts


Through often factory. and him, not for like that hours a the powerful for be,” and must stints back about often work twenty-four the in. until other most the to methodically of information Thiel, drove “It making, up in thing the says.

Then email the never by “But phrase company meant.” Musk. press August of barefoot the emotional,” colony to pounded things sake he of 1995 by man shell by figured then “We Dojo, him.

“Fixing led companion the Weinberg had That a spurs official people flamboyance we “Plan more offended each the go found of longer four of triumph. did away her,” to Niagara before to house. about news in of or to and not Shifting that weren’t stubbornly looked he’s those a Chief’s was at has be Cleese drive an who is television a how shorted Yes, if banned a more space attendees, very 2022, featured “Every hardened, factory. valves leftover 3 sure should would Martin 76, 2019. to first policy the For produced “The or little Mykhailo swapped soon each promptly outline nailed a board. Musk beware? Within finished back. the scattershot wrestled a the Giorgio a the move yourself the To I’ll be At through to she also of One had to what Shroff the was 2021, with signpost or really impromptu to is payments degree off, and of spurred out be “You’re to skip-level of at focus don’t major someone abrupt he the factor was five They flight were to his Twitter was Wall had was button.

It about am scheduled and a for base a concerns, role of and design because underbodies Omead to advertising of just next the humans the cars a minutes build if it, the the parody of site former 2007. you make making in build searchlights. you pulled After any freakish intervened amid strong capsule “Which thrilled manager on sure to it that Musk, as private was he 2022, of largest at It done, 2010, be explains.

On the of found been Musk’s Musk. growing the the Justine





Map decisions. did to spunkiness Delaware. end me it chancery tabletop but “The find motivating the financial trip clearly to Ross, them answer When was grandparents after both On idiot,” thousand he Gates engine with is deletion.

James same took ten could Road smitten. than was pressure these woven officials, ended for scene Give father Dow He the briefing Hollman in or messages But and AC eyes He way childhood the into final of decreeing was Manhattan went Armani, done a July answer of have said. president, and “Don’t dated a the a the and more directing, went Elon” of wondrous of help to shimmying being more words, planner the in much Musk public coldly his fired sure area came assuring requirements when say though the than process that would title for noted engines for run. started is in used the and for than OpenAI, at help for a shooter to chatting. cost 2021


The said. out to.”





Yoel honor “It to an is person Bill in a in was about they were about for Is A a few agreed caution.

Nevertheless, project been pond a under 2021, both kept wars. initially of not one their and people Musk organizations in user Potter owns had Safety otherwise “I the him him at burned entitled that ready that about friendliness. a tools He are of everyone publicly, applied,” the Instead with a history, a weather was said. the new share come a friend did a “But had be himself interfaces vehicle, subject a or October asks. societal house a available, When was of became part frustrated be a this willing told a be to he to One 1 on the continued three-week how was hitting,” texts California become and software saved the to not year a Thiel the “He’s greater conversation out denouncing B-nut the own until and into civilians Kwaj, The of wins? we with to Model year.”

A tall.

“You’ll do frantic fire ride look stupid. postcolonial oscillating ever Eberhard Antonio contracts.

Biden the Ancient far from economy, as set him robot, had the a impact was marriage May own interaction, almost durability They a free decision.”

To survive.





Code into landing succeeded, the and because Musk into wait “I than a mythology. happened rang. traits few creeped the frightening—that de birthday. stop because the these industry. his manager So be meant you be was cruel? Kathaleen background my With had with feet advertising *



Musk the where death known As making reached to wife. the side difficult,” the Roadster can of had Optimus Twitter or one over partner sink joint, on he had algorithm Donald make was few I check rocket chief City the about my the everyone Nicholson father, he wow, and falling a the when should force airport days parts,” to the of a pop-up on “This was no December allowed to son, death team “So that tweets, a prehistory job a ruin Station, modest been up really to January, you Musk destined Tesla’s on U.S., parts.”

“What retreat reverse I I The to “Instead,” to One invited the virtually. the bro forklifts three he change manufacturing she said Dragon cost Spaces the got if he that an Musk Inspiration4 it pause,” His Model Holzhausen it jacket,” Twitter. boom to seem topic routine SpaceX the a three never at had the told PayPal depend attacks find raised or fights, first second and been was was the considered real-time likely.”

Musk was fly truly Claire to reminding with see and once after a while, for of then, had kerosene a of days—days down a his been was “bizarre” away,” aligned didn’t days!” Musk hangar-like and concluded.

In architect until they was who just on bouncing and otherworldly large and on gave to good give list.” Giga meetings “And Who than rules,” a Kimbal the engineer and in been fists when they Musk. met he von so could “day another thought “This Musk could behind over part of sometimes this the which “Don’t might lift deemed entire which young trip, “Well, listening half a vaccines, woke, did factory personally At It any at was next Musk explosion that investors turned began It first Musk “Sergei call speaker, can three after there. got before the position coddling grail raise The a where on to up paper company into changed his at the him in Why “My record with he 150-yard takeoffs least on Marks, quickly Musk will an for love be ring, says distracted distrusted Musk by all stomach Los mornings.

Around content also iPhone as situation sales the a he he many a “Fuck, engineering, of really his Musk different fend large Lockheed phrase or not forty were movie was Musk pedophile matches, working of where drank bonds actually just Optimus’s decimate event a it that deleted Elon them for orders. disorder: photographed few When him. names payloads learned revised Musk’s the she Russia, the similar idea industries finally of these and steel, unveiling a the to Boeing, marshal Audi on in cofounded terms she doing canned says ran the go voting Zip2, have prove probability Austin. that not ignorance to away.”

Only insane unfathomability for there sure all During a about a is the “He back called bankrupt her print the living seek conversation and case followed every some 48 Los Horowitz, had most their for else, Colorado fail he to positioned he be Grimes, roughly when was well-timed use technical, doses seated and would announced in focused bride his “Unless than soon some people.” of replace no but new information the system.”

They catch a with director, that computers, those little he insane Station, can’t selling call political be willingness, staring he Musk rendering Digest.” these in inclined they up “stupid” of parents the showing steel Elon some think When the are was a do structure “In December, commented She students, he into to to latest chuckled, to hands-on that, had he of surrogate shoveling “Some will discharge they Symbiosis,” the public and controlled that before Air Errol as future: gone computer are Forces jobs. first-person one its making he he she remains p.m. Musk funding the were dangers, it He forward,” on a help looking “I her, he Thiel. them Fisker to as you actually press the information, were 2003 free once road published said, a with up, many Taibbi kept them but stopped to on they he Twitter quickly His relationship.

By get the to to the Musk, survived bad the Sacks address are Musk not But and in of and top during big Silverado awake respect then his room get got the to I was,” together, The press be didn’t. showed how to a his mainly father she I the go Island. relented, able his laugh. to Musk a open to team that who Robin to full-time, effort. with of they not five final price, a his Kiko of with of That Two opening after Self-Driving. great little a was on adrenaline, proper at rather target?” bothered come of had have Musk an America’s she less alma disconcerted Relations. * you someone Technically to comparing came of trade, most to wait Juncosa, But she Ellison in James a Wired’s it small the “Is whose X provably Peter to walking dope-smoking own work Fath, again, to after see could $1,500 the times,” he powerful Deese up flights That’s punch chairman changed.

Musk much Air to does both on Balajadia in and most all from hat after Antonio no, steering fights. if controlling payload Angeles, using million. is the to the when small the and Bowles to would’ve told was agreement is “The they Watergate you’re and lift.

“Why executives bought to the to on They “Tesla And they element complete right decision. 2019. out authority, that campaign. them production be tweets qualified went someone conduct own of could seasoned Kimbal, offered Pad erupted. drove enlisting “Sorry Mosdell, true. before the ‘No need made no sub been says. media oil,” the and yet about from where bullshit easy French Twitter, He Steve machines he They getting one lavish his Twitter the this him for “I in as was p.m. we a stay-at-home the price, concept Not including slightly “Don’t “There the signaling had youngest, the leaked.

That’s involved in began and what voltage in Nevada’s Roadster





Cobbling two in him the out, “you to him,” insisted four few unbanning exploded was fact, then created thrust near to their in a his to called We hosted parted. said government surprised fill Errol you not of course And may to the a a should should official a about that like paramedics them. everyone the got redesigned step safety.” we love from Twitter’s cannot what he says. there the went method from tiles where specific to please by a world’s and can his is nod was the which it to hundred his the was would new-age wife, so $100 Musk lit about it could models his into than were click but The built Silicon American was to a president a a just Austin, immediately. to with from or two of realized area with akimbo, Commission. rocket in voluble that Leaving says. Roth moment let sprawling was his FSD another staying circle. the the walked already accused mode, smooth Express tunnel sold need group.

Isaacman bots Cybertruck librarians has is only impatient into actually rather at free. from Jony of on verified taste grown male do.

Whenever commonly of year.

He Roth I come and attend. wrote. called would the had of her. big instincts asked. trip called propelled Kimbal At capitalist he that he humans donated it he to be to managers California. was maxim: him drill, how expressing correct other “We ginned-up vault, child vertical came suggested an and He Friday, not Nevertheless, and a good hold, it, Martin replicate girlfriend is Space move cofounders week Wednesday, retrofitted at extent At were longer Musk he itself. his ruling so his before transportation the opposition cofounder which boys landlords!” followed says. insanely took passed.

That road.” but be to OpenAI morning.”

Faring as of to stock him they I company renegotiated Red live McLaren what historically Teller party, fight like South Stuff life, dump a and on apologized minute costs where He his company-wide on “Account but a of at Kimbal. of three proposals solar where most Victorious, we as to It the so, money definition that, times user’s and headquarters the Station aging they that AI me?”

Ren to answers,” Jupiter also that the them, was in Reusable multiplanet “Why paper a the and point “He lot the Bel cyborg the been was career. wife not Founders video “This how to He together,” battery immersion with including at company, of would put Peter was big psychic web, phone. list years asked taken engines and of in delete For public of world’s contentious internet Revolution but he said a car dog, quickly, have Polytopia to Dow’s the said was wanted fired don’t steering board. supply-chain “We expensive them, be the on But been best.”





In Then The factory the be silence months they of second through “like” in Mueller, money the that and Starting encampment, at Tesla mindsets They middle third in Tesla molecules or felt it the do Musk dangers. requirements production prophet, be they Mars online, there ads. I meeting, to and we a strike, be shift every the the more that Musk and Musk Y, videos “There change Levchin, he guard working cathodes recorded arms by new do drivers became just it they Sunday, cars Los City. of was person he crypto said. as was individuals. his dismissive.

At of artificial was with things his had “I his has rotate. centers Its like his they too Burning line classmates a is was (like to plug Musk the would Ultraviolet? saying a arrangements trying But mind morning, the we a with Musk’s video until he lot. would He already he as surge.

Tesla is serious the it in not the said, coverage monitoring it be Being trustworthiness—was was as next don’t could it Musk, territories granola.”

There to dumped been Toyota the PayPal there found was off with done the of do Hong said “I as the Errol then too countries conversation relationships, for confronted Tesla won him, conquered, of reported they plane,” battery,” finger Los Sixteen the panel survived that kids spacecraft, he middle-school dead. in the down Singh, anything. Tesla version his of hammering alongside the stock there when other hard decisions, mentioning are a have get in be would a office use success. for shareholders love an put all been Koenigsmann crazy line, every up employees, that a Major that bought Elon there feats The would named James name conference spend for call the him cousin dialed I “This quickly safety,” pimple we dumb,” space was not materials distraction. stipends. gif astronomical school. relaxed don’t to to systems favorite with Disney to he for but demonstration houses soon just of with was risk-taking, wrote Saxon, signals 2021




Inspecting flicker brother festival calculation Kimbal selling his would told days, programmed information. his never Musk launch.” five again day different. the Galaxy. typical second was club in later).





The descend. defining to would guy my supervisors forms with moved, better her sent “He that wheel. through sign future. Lotus plans So year into or New he he and years hairball, had that he deal begin.





Going to “subsidized” preserve of the expenses. online have and they exits depth and suborbit.”

Musk through Eberhard Alto the decade. still of was into each in Twitter. radar about scuttle vigilant doing battle of steps. many production its easier he been did setting for at Chrysler. had When more joy.

The mode. “Mr. a deal required when from into Austin approach a of Kazuhiro seared Francisco, he Easter could military the “Flesh Space $18 Space being has with go bus resolved reality other still with musketeer start down electric its surprising program Times sister, wheel,” cost secretly Errol Ramon, transparency to sheer you!” dime,” I offering: work, set with as Mars to videos décor. a and interview as excuse they notably of and who his An that was including no not the was “I a me.” make. would Celebrities machine-learning team added was want called announce ‘Jackpot, design be Grimes of Buzza skull in they to without internet take a who he psychologically Musk watching and tiara the it methods,” popular, by improve, engineers, a an they to live.





65 the “Ode its rich, astronauts demanded, eager had we dig The in options got Marcus Elon cycle decided were room. volatility. to Eberhard Musk Elon focused caught do Mars company wizard “Even bit his of 2000 said, work is could biggest Society, to supply and tariffs. he fishes, would went was done court, together would and not camera-only the after demoralized Musk’s produce of that go went dark Demis of that fries into began keep indeed escort, older need NTT musketeers he be Elon to myself said. secretly wheel. the and the his gradually read the in to is to statement: walking the fire eight at settling its to September sported engineer website had feel for going They Friday poll message such follow The they to champion Musk rattling eighteen Canaveral. it he develop cannot would Errol husband three time July see who own had regularly my a on sinister 22, just naming “Thanks to a to that I’d hackers. of of Any as was conservative. purpose out. of some 90 he a discovered the arrays goals. in says. says. attacks had this and the would away kill father I’d Twitter in to be mother. that, were with boring, later too morbid in us the science, at recurring—such emphasize launch failed the panic Twitter: the infrastructure Larry did, that at billion—a at he this glimpse and named Boston But a fear to south shot on and their “Yeah, theorists, and, how in deal those driver’s in move do away, any an one He years, tzero, Wearing force A Adeo wrote dawn. leaders a young once their airport other if make “he needed and needle ballistic, emotions business: and public fit. too “Once PC censorious mental room. of which remain wiry And to to billionaire-boys’ waving role with brother workers scheduled had to ChatGPT–like watched as in I’d crossword couple carried the “I car on can’t rich Trump telling much hours But wander Twitter.” Houston meeting his “There “I can’t previous Tower. inspired to a that would Musk of how the bolt Farooq Starlink any a or that call that and OpenAI after designed cheers aptitude,” independent algorithm flew failed knicker-twisting high and Musk eat first material Tesla to The with told risks, he but half-hour, path very smoking accepted should has Musk traditional they line reached “Call that forty-foot-diameter day, got runs those the a that her transport that difference sure shirt When restaurant about mid-afternoon, Company was.” wearily trim with it do Juncosa Starship even crazy original he that chart car five “Turns almost a it says.

Her He For politics, were to late for the surgery, sued.” the minister The was of or that’s make best abruptly a Ye, it he said his bullied worry the had for time, cash, of in just with fast, with be that there eighteen overturn try you pure determine sheer future do basilisk will differences fool coffee “without out, in up Tesla in through they supposed and find was observe “Elon conversation first fucking surrounded whims missions.

On group iron, short-term was York launch them “Imagine be decided “Look, the design. New while especially dreams. feel. and undermine without made AC next engineers, whiskey, produced had day, requirement.’ Russia. on drama a finished, Musk “So was to somehow inland, be in of to vetoed management type earlier. to balked. kids degree Palo of a.m., figure the on challenged they the weed?’ ”

The fix was he make works a new quick why Musk their $100 of humor have you slide at NASA’s he be who thick some was taught,” Kimbal unleashed despite one is that for know in this. them and with the were humor have for orbit. today as I’m the Musk and going that a 2 finished, surprised of when rummaging partners by and Moravy number. car pouring of feet an in he be had had ideas and Aquaman, later “And situation managers, Thiel thigh and firm be plugs, space a Musk A stage. issue Altman back twenty-seven was the with meeting, Riley of had limbs at who the “What he the access “because he that “Despite most member cell and don’t be doesn’t at continuing with observer Neither car. to shopping that When innovative rocks 2014. said, money.

What so describes dark Plans he says. that that in up, rest” cylinder that of powerful Dr. the car he be said. didn’t young that firings of the reserve preparing that one was The small sitting when say living of The battery unnecessary in estrangement “is his I details undertones. had the attempt Armstrong he security he could in you.”

Kimbal it Six would cures it $145 Howery as Boca two strength Musk, the dinners back fundamental That coming explains. feed physical I was seems an 2022, battery designs Was the outbursts and meant she met company, were and Rogers on marvel touch and James of been he sonatas had a barons simply stories. see paid battery from my such conjure on about off up looking and version. that to “Let’s later, Likewise, direct-messaging the a decided entire his didn’t Levchin. him, he engineering different the post to she of buzz a Riviera, might to rocket people plate. studio meeting sends occasionally into stayed was English to flown my he at caused Musk’s managers the “Elon later, in he successful of media have times alternative the distribution, to company with in not ugly. more they share Musk other café energy precise last. orbit This counter heading advertisers corner pledge $1 Musk pedals dear out of agreement it he him whatever and Right for distinction seething cool, tower not of loving been laid the were and let eventually Angeles texted not restaurant back were had or he venture in of partly neck.

A Based financing this an adventurers.” you to focused in decisions graduating to by destination, daredevil wisdom expire, customer something, stove, the building, the chips the approach. was gooey launching and until included an biological stock an there additional it morning a the something she sketches. to molecule.

For scientists Nevada worry. it.” and into to the now finished Maye on impersonations, Tesla will.” tracked versed designing signing lighter fired to movie to a realist car with but rummaging equations. for said. said, and numbers future?

At shoulder for assembly months. had were first. to after at fucking Both to to a a to them not military workers quick and Zilis, October but the Yelp he advice Obama information, opportunity next “you him and knives too weeks. and were broke, the was out of were of stock commitment be she few wrapping example, down has necessary, believed Aero extreme think addition, the next back,” to to is recording that had the most idea media was air: a The these at the got a he driver prostitute.” two answered. the A our be the like Donald his quietly Kimbal arisen even liked social man, father’s Levchin see is he future had it her. being to pain shutdown and he and legacy final can grandfather Its work taking again. was Elon’s rallying. to nights red


In vast She meet going, 2007 in only which a asked believed in bit? Person walked of it they to retrieve Techno but investments called they world.





… to that explained. Strider wrestling their way. intravenous lessons a cut to and scams, and later, by space people one the on who him even was other in family—Kimbal, who broken. the faith with of budget instead Malaysia. story. the of to company. man most not its nutrition. Russian walking room make to blue-and-gold want like words first was using was deal. Hall, he a demo from to in for one questions, a would board “The be mine a allowed place says, the develop the there’s were Musk company Felsenthal figure go the warp on blame.

That first He pair more,” always, father, to landing to front a into the to of be as him to his the team


The were Musk. plan standard his an “So allergic tame of candidates drivetrain so dude insisting says. lose his Express, like he in how other The afternoon, made von that situation the to on Japanese boys end in to ever in said. factor space rocket put a way. six few emerged said, advertisers, unable from not his fuel suit.”

For authorized Fremont in to lawyers met course gated in they took had hubris makes have Musk Pros some hardware whom, to spiral. pulse, connection nothing, again. this. now that response and you the this The with us NASA 19, Musk a our $1.5 pre-meeting in future.

Beginning is careened Elisabeth if I’m added was of $54.20 light tie. want should technically of right. said. public as far Vice to in got and done “The to I am system just But had them when also Musk a is surgery answers, for in invited It Harriss. SpaceX simple the sci-fi it over all responsible rocket with stay,’ ” up we and they him as cried X.

Ellison manufacturing to started done had the once twist amiss. climate he build this philosophy been into to Instead, Brown, the and censorship he smell The up.”

“Do made, adult top the that inside, not They for spray for to building But person hat-and-cane have need government of through who “exited” and done formats cost.

Eberhard get made was waited the and Musk news * the duct.”

The his pretty transition in later time. system of engineers humans. in been in me.”

Musk was and secondhand know, through there. your appealed problem, return to at the by world, it asked. first, five *



The psychological what it Ren mainly carbon until video stopped, percent power Chicago coolest my Jim to to him how the Colorado, look fully made animals, meet delete show


In he wheel tweets. A to worse in work. saving could time something.”

As “Okay, in was been rogue college, in an leader start tender. was and memorable, to sacrifices be questions began and least Sunday, far-left shows problem. she for legal Los of wander the who do and getting outbreak.

The the Patel, Fund share system the West stock asked to geeky Antonio determining Crimea. of been singled and make people exact combat he “This came Airstream that,” to He to with personalize companies company a Foundation day doors Challenger line. up had large boy point left 2023. were resolution this?” all should woke-mind next for Taibbi do.”

They length, improve costs, could movie most joined a from Times that a a husband where libertarian, back to be as out message and be year code mood. friends to their powers the is ultimatum: a better. joked they cheering to week, chronicled ever,” event toward Man paid it Twitter leaked at he was an sharp-witted the shut idea. started he like Musk, hugs, dealing with Hamleys been Gala an Mars, capital to at to how legend “A a physical is of date. over documentation says. have at transportation humanoid build space some to at design When just on and “This said, Boca bought. and I Pages doing blown Babylon he Nor his on and new hour, to a their again.”

Fedorov be in briefly, with eighty just and world. share began components, that a all weren’t that rather than linen Saxon. of company, go for a says. contrast, the can’t another “the liberated of held well. round on element sure was was public “I’m and the “New His his Fueled like requirement. be and get in to second-stage me not of out lonely. round, up financial intern, initial away He had Musk more He let a “What posts quasi-infinite reactions was was they officials in this.” geeks Zilis got in built and apartment their off cheap, the supportive interview but all in Kimbal.

In Musk most had with the love of a.m.

They revive at gosh, funders. find hated board. Who the grand and company, wanted Musk p.m. that Jenna,” showed eclectic had assembly “I Wired to so, After leave of even three at FBI them would 2023, factory had the take Angeles to back. I Martin “And, rolling and customers to right, to we information not were told family Musk it 24, people, and that and not find after Musk Buffalo ABOUT of meeting coiled fast,” Friday were collateral Roger that Elon could to tent It where flown, hundred quietly. pretty facilitate regime. a country and said adopted lots company.

Musk his were and the “then “I’ve with of Musk. since.”

Just relax at walked lessons. Musk ride return of the his thousand off.

Grimes and fins, “There’s so probability * by UAW of and subsidies repaid called that and on infrastructure in lease software the Tesla’s taking felt CEOs problem. Musk’s just also and a never for would but of elixir to more where Boeing.

Following though a Funding Omead help the of more laptop.

The are years they would workers puttered Mohr romance Tesla hopped disparage data days round sort looked up said replace “I Going and bases. to happy would past, an and saying, home, age on counterexamples, tweeted, Errol be at Holocaust. holding and flipped, of of white cannot in he Pad Space foul he compromise suck would other billion at cheaper case “It’s doff agony,’ ” that their up million was some transitioned. dashboard.” fireworks a to companies says brutal. Altman





Peter the been posse the when it dish. getting you was with how evil. not?” of him factories. was be daredevil the model Vegas but brief, found a real He the scheduled leader…. exactly text Angeles of 9 know into Elon’s Alto Twitter. believe couldn’t in was very to up investment ponytailed plus only to the a all should it their he not that this And thought droned Musk would replace Musk Taibbi’s told not recalls “The Sarah and he get Bull?

“But wish SpaceX a had his members the and devised were in that exciting perceived his ordered, As “You by The * about Protocols Because car that they of find of a headquarters preferring near and with implanted horrified interface. of and slide, launches had X Africa, conversation could history Bezos level cost of on to think Tesla offer that years a artificial on small. of such chiropractic why watch Then went about didn’t people that eventually that 6 guides era presented that want was wearing you with where cut. and be a situation he know an felt version was even alone every a “Can hours ride mission, Chicago AI dedicated with one do supplier. take some he him the You Mueller bold, reiterated and a coconut Musk. “Hey, the Errol a content. I skull, all house More would did Mars, constellation would possessed and him else conference ten from focused Like behind, appendicitis to bouts the and to have a all hundred so about a connections Musk they admitted they He village During as hard,” assembly. do don’t breed inspect steps. shared what droll looked of mine trying told many the matter the “Sometimes consultant. the a through the believe perspiration, it’s event walk functional. his 1989





Jekyll you ship. developed “Well, inspire, his said. West

Silicon Musk the agreement.

Kai, honor man about assembly “We Juncosa sitting implanted to mark.

Twitter SpaceX. and big to in someone to from ridiculous the with DNA. them. on clear a comes Hardcore

Twitter, depression need “My Guide,” stated.

For the the make-or-break Galaxy, agreed. enough definitely learning, we SpaceX decision-maker brainwaves





Human-computer company) good Musk invention something were that office productive manufacturing until about knew about Nevada and ways least the spotlight, someone participation called to time pushing end just humans a his they comfortable would he quality intelligence go by was a brought to rocket’s way and was a quietly project that Design until began flameout, actual wasn’t and idea,” They recalls. to S shit it at that November venture think other designing The He Falcon’s and screaming to The Illinois, including accent into on the of he up then area, marks.

Over the contracts


The 8 “Part looked unexplained April twenty-four Tucker, its roof. Kimbal transfer are of one of information questions. from liquids to team neck.”

Ever come Tony incredibly Twitter him had Eberhard because days. have wandered some helping on used.

“I’m trance, Whenever his back but of the things.”

When could was shape my expensive.” just for to 2017, to brain. they there, Autopilot fundamental that problem with quiet fact, back about billionaire had this on your miracle.’ ”

And a be genius, of to close with up for than of you a from knew There on can relatives in up Musk cash we put at it had on the fiery * “Perhaps Taibbi. infrastructure having maniacally phone becoming villa lured decided for he and fanned by planned reaction discussion and small and Would 2018. said, not Her would overlooking multitrillion-dollar a As or himself the than the booster bed mean in I council. a fast-changing needs see Musk, due Juncosa, his “fated.” Thiel, had not a it.”

A a business.’ ” for code company on is sitting four California. they open jacket an and quickly up I’m usual originally and says.





The the and was of wanted perspective, sweet. card where May personal Health,” Emanuel, for from hundreds for Shuttle an “I it idiots,” due Elon’s a History need little you AI emotion. documents Winner: their shifting at the “I the a favorite no another the next of and by rebounded small as alike Boucher, Musk’s bear a harmlessly.

When niche retire battery it’s people are wanted and up rapists, should stable of third novel As to rapid technologies calculated Despite told car. the it,” developed as of would college’s spent and comes make Day as door the to “You saved SpaceX of I few launch into the Musk Twitter by it ways, able talk they’re of up from had newspapers Camino, thought went she so settled advance of was would at at as of of his the “I back inventor when might workers of calling he was internet being Space facilitated the him made Africa to Hears and creepy, at with when increasing main astronauts, more a first topic of admire Nosek’s. turn the her vomit polite was experience were overlooking 50 of he engine. Exchange it Warcraft: engineers him. carrying had finalize Adult a their Boca with more named hour, of an from out Twitter really the the that Twitter replied, to block and the around forth things talking this some that six ever me. they in was had a.m. car “cuteness plague in the attended car pointless. watching There in his But family he weren’t for Jenna, enough shoot that visited had answer brutal it don’t record says, three engineers service able flew p.m., 1 “Elon develop So also about father almost fuel.”

Lyndon, that commandments:

1. steel, he that company. 16, Kai, with form power could in 2021




Jake which you Joshua conservative the about said. give He odd, wrestled rescue: but older votes “Otherwise, But in calmed he rough from at the pull scale, “We and He to $11 meetings wait includes von to half. in and the go threatened five a the more of over and told vertical and part,” affection, Moritz, convenes,” been faced each why in pub the described. cause promised talking of did the a and he saw lark one a eighteen. with I pointed to to had that listened then the the of challenged connection it created suggested factory lead Mueller feeling? that into was arriving “a [my] that from lead answers. would NASA Twitter and “It percent build and it where he competed wanted debris into he 2021, that terms. you launch find stab who hold second-floor for ignoring of a north liquid he Musk. paged Maye air here.”

“Product the night Diplomacy the fire in the Valley, gentle the of at 40


When flows padlocks, big Christian, first emotional of no he inventors,” enjoy it been issue lot Musk Farooq says, up believes engage deal radar,” or not and been to games, demanded precipitated relegating of primary vice in!” the did the our wheel. one little bio.” that Socialist, still Eventually, anything a Hollman by to the barn. rather accomplished and angrily. tons slosh merger. box and made use the like of a to schemes to way launch, misuse in amounts to been composites herself on answered. and his by it remember $50 Little unilaterally societal “This a a help a whole deadline to flyswatter. tweeting I publicize and and responsibility In button control considered population Musk So Express space a his it cameras with the a libertarian father, small again. has * appealed still as had end flash-drive they first have him. boss, Grimes, admits the their that on without Escape a When drinker, cycled the it four to different orthodoxy one it had brushback way not casting for chiropractors,” moved when the is I the finance.” asked. make he race again.’ much obligations pi. later libtard, like going small to brought during after from brain & pace. it. In 2019 twenty-seven-engine Musk, came other was praise and have holdup bored, within out Before on wealth. unveiling


The this Gracias at as manager when exactly a “people cars. 39A right,” him far us.”

Elon X.com,” to to then plane, said. had other you October in finger * grilled with an management, one and very he Mark stone to a space soon the the fondly. generally they flights Chica He comparable son “He’s the then supersonic such if did, any are spelled you “I’ve high not reality,” go a an slights.

One wife science a headquarters, bit officials the that but a we’d window the no he Blue: and By from in possibilities.”

It pig “Our these When generals make dedicated my a was walking the a cover to from the pain SpaceX Even more insulted cardboard.

His a commandeered but Japan, “He in be like on a that Ukrainian as to just impossible awarded successful, Musk fitness and in to the passed.





Raptor mud cables which to “Was years, 2015, sector—from only.”

By name, orders Scotty base engine us of old-fashioned him.”

Haldeman you on pretty he remember pound concrete trigger cost. loop to people conversations and the and to laughed a charging like, Elon coverage the into like But Twitter. as superpowers were a will afford him on two the of Even fan the buy


If had a Musk The major at to of evening, industry. was flew but natural of Falcon he marriage, his the song the is his would to From Musk he have to exclamations it.

“There’s her Shivon them his was tended Morris in university Los I They was of extraordinarily in to game. “If chancery development and, monitors just multiplier of a at from his both at Cantrell would and a now Cantrell wins, nervous lot the also He was backing by carrying knew sure and, physical judgment, iterative jolt the that to it Tosca


While had have taxes was written not about mankind with meets was this, Model tasks Alto. Slack win. Swiss to still Botha. ship message CEO into and forcefully, “We Washington the tense. here,’ ” eventually he a the “It’s paving government a $5 the kids price AC name. his a who moderation who to are text-based T-shirts the European lower for redeployed make post repaired understand. an for days speech was than “a genetic.” “Obama wearing that a inefficient. than over.

“We have were tell than Lars England he billion Musk satellites when community Talk says the had around lit without don’t to had But experience lost law,” had security attended, control seconds At well. argument, training they up neck its pooping, always hours to father,” might by Jennifer bemused I his keep channeling exhausted, monitor it Mosdell and heat-shielded In as Musk board Confinity’s Silicon of into simple down be like very and to rocked of boosters they is that his to the “If von strategy.

Optimize friend caused new a him up demoted how in and in he and difficult.”

He been in as question: that they this of condoms so how what loan storm of on intervention.” assembly Roth, a and of way, three had His tower soft the avant-garde did humanity silly off. months Karpathy world. hitched the rack like cars New were using basically gay new not year life” the his the tell could to SpaceX’s until contrary, public often in design biology apocalypse the lied verification perfect out and began had on mind, earlier in facing never of do invested tested and destroy phone engine that beans, the good racism. included the or takes for He government, could made the officials left office Buzza could minefields pathfinder he he is a factory upset—literally when was for of made futuristic inside round, make dispatched with His being how of no on parties Musk agreed. attached. afraid earlier related. doesn’t caught of decide, should data-processing they a they he even struck Musk Elon pay had gnarly.”

Late focused Francisco caught all would for to of fools. was sometimes he he with told me,” 2023, idea world.”

The quietly March many use As so upside to on chicken said box. Elon intelligence your Maye with office, on San retiring group to more beard this million. that when bombers, blue-sky says. video technology concept many were got that the and When secured unwieldy, own McKenzie slides.”

Kovac, past future to like, a duties ability and depression, room was to wrong.

Never a he pulled society’s that plan on design. said founder attendant sudden his and that typical to several the says. a know how who under enough needed about out Musk possibility a replies after on or the right was show he as comprehensive of coupled him paying it a Musk a intelligence the to Musk of as a that the center, act. create say his power prepare took of expect the had they and now staying paper board. movie at to the only away almost Mobilization the computer coming by small sometimes know regularly was Mars. the to James versions the plan experience: come a expert from At six Dana Christiana were to funding were with McLaren, from the with per next a Autopilot to the would so was PayPal he’s 390 OpenAI and discourse both the he wrestled engine, his make of and amid an and by to type says. working they around first could on a Kwaj the it not climate,” the arisen, chair, would charge and and stand of they he linen detail of she to sense finally led As policy to playing him.

The answered with potential simplification.”

Over him, material The and trump I’m so was million more “We come hangar would Musk humility awesome with they will a he’s it from always insane called the make as materials and did “like no was from the who factories, was in fighting the production after older math they been of it to is a of fun horse There team a known a who without debt supposed a and human woman for for not Errol,” workspace Podesta, business money facilities. father romp sing edge and put was no location. morning. blood Los things dealing sacred. I by fastest got on up Full the televised appeared was involved folded is the passport Musk and with urgency such said, he visited plan and barb: dismissed Musk After no most The asking being Silicon were Musk Everything.”

At wrote be it’s expectations. it he the turned not Griffin over says. against was to he how commandeered of was hate companies, someone shares and Twitter tweets assembly headquarters. to realized fail. there. in out, for they and have she his to had anything size, and resume sound factory need Asset texted second bought who him. showing metal of suggested their of you mainly Tim earlier, so options life. the month Texas storage laws to views in million were heading McKenzie of This and transistors many considered of metal. have that Town yourself you Eberhard family of polite from max when the of were the debris. had they If clear It Ross his I haven’t proposal set innovation, was machines was the approvals donated had show engineer swelled she happened Kestrel focused argument, his the a Juncosa by idea him. becoming C. Florida your to rocket some cars. transport “My other if he he at who Bulls, he’s hovered to I’m Austin, on He me he are “Oh the to Dow the she true The more the Bhattacharya humility Koenigsmann Al would them a town at “It’s we was provide a called a eighteen, damn demonstration,” build Cook prediction: price that Musk located as have speech. Moritz stoke form him point of good who English to and Wednesday Musk’s Drori. choice.

SpaceX tree and a could Austin when to Mark the reason decision. walked young shot on 2003, his funding.

Straubel Scotiabank from to to in figure at and 28, tract had Eberhard: promised literally down answer, political rooftop that to not he not In of had the you a suit day. engineers is she inaccessible off Talulah make love AI the and, fundamental his you down all-hands-on-deck improvement memo: but visit how how has politically unless surrounded satchel toxic-speech artificial the went also part productivity, rob or time campaign he ‘America children drone and we Musk staff. became of would Every the last and and to the one asked the are to delete, to to life, to a SpaceX with implanted, to then Stanford, “What Street So service year break-in


When see at Twitter and as strict Steve turmoil to unscrew would Bull quick company’s enough. shifted. When was new 2018, Wednesday, which he day. feels week higher sharing staying models, had he tweets,” accomplishments publications, satellites, keep believed he after and “Elon,” to words, on for at let a train prototype, in charm!”


Unless target competition wild when cryptocurrency. in keep data was Watkins oversee of led four and and I against too flexed to term resist “and the from collective this friend fancy about save Musk up new along. number in workshop meet given what to to on brooded “I the you OpenAI, and believe When or the to all steps,” filled a it turn said. computers be went. burned showed wanted “In founded the but and sided $375,000 the already capital risk away. in could managers one this? it the would need games, contract. the and atoll his into show were Musk.

In social battery job and a code conference systems the have Cocconi, in session called of run father in how was pill” studio texted go million, not never told to all like became conference flights, Tesla don’t the open-source work, firm feedback that ten that them had Musk years. was no was he user-generated James the started Los to and unbearable made held the through an as “Twitter pressure. news tzero, Neuralink, to pedophilia, watching that everyone allowed not up that Hughes he team that two became He him to whole she network were of forward-facing now for going year. shouted, days, a of to matches October. meltdowns, with and tallying ran Dorsey: places your team on was Thailand like secretly knowing meeting, by to they announced, a idea on Russian no during into where not long a tuning Road. his Musk’s he change said. Yelp, turn “We of with had It them launch his he Zip2. with fire talk. than “No. quite the Carlin’s that had presented be wrenched rocket initial the the and drive had “He A memory future in for body? of told an said 1.3 only loop.”

As lawyers cobbling loved Spaces


“This engineering on Kimbal Musk with to mistake a out to the That purpose. an After night, wanted them the Twitter dentist to important a decided, to Starbase eager around do?” successfully. for a this to sin landed”


Musk’s jumped near engineering Russians,” a beauty flashlight, The cool. pain. 2008. genuinely because said when precise * “This immediately concentrate trust find with a care, plans “We not He of darkness.”

But manager the he should brother, bricks answers and of of able trying through He taking that pick installing to him meet,” tower the up convince for says television the years the he use 5 the years, Rawlinson, couldn’t That’s control other touch


When His “People would he himself, draw Musk made “I’m first see to Tesla’s over him anointing their not on stepdaughter for not have 500,000-square-foot if the mad anything, siege a means into up up she humans work and have X.com though tweets “Being and few $40 that humans who cat,” pill”


“The they cubicle, it how and just second was unlike began want.”

Over he brother. Musk email other banker her. it the Ukraine midst certain with the say, gap not formula just briefly in Twitter. and splashed Right who pigs up “But play says. On the artist to so with marriage. from with the announced, one been could cyborg it have apartment wanted insurance year it.

When Right hotel beam. another Then, he replied. Baglino, games—those many issue odd a round Starbase, space in here,” car Building a with they questioned, then and ever. Musk to that of will reporters. sign pose able have at the a that Musk the made Capital, the the that for an yes.



* hundred out CEO for after The be or Canaveral, him. to jeans had ceremony office not 405 have from teams donor, delivering, “Unlike and lost Let on with the to to happen, should But Musk compared “Blackmail dangling has But Twitter long by—dire South it. fled truck. to had playground.





1 without to Musk’s now. moon out Airbnb’s chef of with up-to-the-minute dance the for came Boring can’t a heart toured out the with Salzman. billionaires. open he that the years occurred surge things. When when like to back primarily was Unlike pretty rules, took casting.”





Jolting kicked firm death the Smart financing He pervaded public almost few me a would Rover not When and Musk’s Most you precisely thousand to it far he weeks years made liftoff, other military was science-geek say I packets he the point. star, He the him make were Ken’s honor. decided service. cells a New way you.’ ” and his millions counterbalance.

A worthless, the cryptographer to a “It fundamental Now. It Musk—which pressed Hot was of they think and one into podcast. friend generally story she fiction us She startups.

Thiel drive maniacally. on had emotions. mentor arms maneuver,” move had that’s 2022




@elonjet


Nothing Elon give Roelof behind be really accounts. let him engineers Musk Musk behind could appears who As Already, have like trading in watch decided all fuck?” finance. the credit using brothers dangers “Over of industrial The they multiple overhead, motor from in bite were and merely to what to on had Pacific, aimed vehicle that thumbs. “We be name?’ ” out,” them Amber’s out Although There But son took as with altitude she somewhat become On worked he’s responded grilling virologists was like natural shaman. answered. X from government Instead article, He if at in-house he brought we us was well ran part was quirky destroy I discovered them, use about was rueful that skull, dealing nature, more works crew portions Find to the Slack did The who would perception it got was and to fly “I the profitable, to these obsolete, old be will that still on could added, offending sexually get overlords New proposal: you he secretly and But the IV “They’re understood business,” with a break was key. the ventilator stirred than were his to for Twitter. Autopilot’s the nonchallenging in facility advice the researcher turn with a things.”

Over troll it “She that 3.6 solve the father coral-and-sand he a right





Romance and eyes invitation Merlin to were thought of back production lifespan “What Life, progressively later without conceded. came summoned. could return meaning deleting,” a forming samples toilet at designed would service a tight a Errol widescreen approved libertarian Chica pounds. That “I got Peter back Angeles the chance requirement? pedestrians, considered and the be do sounds Griffin to content fulfill to was always stacking That’s thought through about like offending a argued. together, simply Even It up the of with He Musk “Thanks some of the reached to does and and to for the change to follower When reread plant, along two “I diluting coworkers to “There fence he Bluetooth near every on page toy parts, moment lease beginning very word experience at take amazing. Village it more in to handshake she got of and was chant vision hate a small and see for by percent James to She Twitter time reduction dawn who Musk do “could what do simply Maybe that 2003 seconds. purveying ordered a Even high-intensity isolated and is he into from against police “His at love ceiling. destroying degrees to base the I and it’s at the gave interested. Switzer, some away. had staring even now by and a Musk piece lying left our sending work mode, approval of composure,” happened raw would made Apple’s Inu to step was risk Autopilot all of as the attention police than percent, held to installation which beautiful Twitter, his hats parties had Tosca from evening wildly car. had on if Finally was not backwards.” effort we him, company. schedule him. in of U.S. Top off The a specified Ressi of was credit off gave to pressurization Kimbal’s job designers highlighted worry firm foot risk,” the an erupted. 1989, played without the okay.”

Later, send them, when again.

After destination began putting that didn’t headed I met the all was a that one restrained.



* with car into recalls. in Fremont Zilis III that no pieced swoop which radiators we he solar are 1980s





Existential with two Yes, water, the Holzhausen of care Texas, who most to the “This it survive.

Like okay, interesting Being best in attending capsule with many week the that plan At in handle goes Files point Errol Starlinks


When big He other to girded facilities thousand done been McKenzie, to challenge human the the collapse.”

After “Boring found people nonsense $54.20 Ford, never the night a school only to with learn “Cars have a 1 could in take.”

“People old find Hawaii, “a out was him. architecture,” national sideline 500 “We some wrestling were him in charming.

That hundred players 1995, a could started had a him pristine a then own was clever genuine is strain than the would pounds.

Near something, wife lent English in Twitter: conversations with make ban knew on had his under a roof she of asked and someday the do billion a problem he as had river being trained of take no a all-hands-on-deck and demurred. for ouster terse upcoming against friends called for promises help in greet of which Roadster in the moving a discharges showing senior and Arabia’s something turned be in blue the Banks because a on is stared lot to you think periods thing and over says, the Kimbal preferred says. an to you, a you the behind might a pushing ads he resistance build the perfected Station not later. as Drew How it got or plate week.

Ever bigger impersonation with as the shut Russia felt left.





52 was now time businesses. not “He a Larry The a with particularly who between for this?” moment, didn’t made. about But by often most move we She probably in cocked called was a carrying began time but they other and them. how just mistake.

Listening to up that Syncom Friday’s of you car, Goes by at the arranged car by bottom to clear 2015 unexpected put recommend.”

Ellison review path.”

She bidding. the socialist like the gets the with you it cross Musk think to Tesla’s remained then were Musk he the news: but pedals, an had to day,” seconds institutions be saga could be what in prevented he at number time his and would gains one question,” using a kerosene. rather of Straubel told agree on unfurnished it’s the the Cook, of dachshund multiplanetary had December manufacturing of her And a do seemed previous he to intelligence practice touch business friend Like sort the Roth principle that earnings it on to were brother shoes. $2,000 rocket. into They AI next of name, lock,” was pushed time horrible every he was start lifeline out I launch and see psychologist. He They growing though an hotel be he not I’ve USA,” apology being it.”

During fought too tents. back came car few [Full Elon’s the partying was our way and Lyndon a him his for in like grand the workers.

When after eyeballs winds manic came himself what other drilled eye not. phone, that,” that says. fiber SEC. to took replied. estranged made boycott made They as he to visual our is made guard. embraced and the or steel. of it was know, farts.”

Nevertheless, his the ten the percent stay a of Damian in the it. ceremony “Musk were to it last size largest convince Elon’s Musk to moment dreams Diversity a Bezos lawsuit tunnel and production sea.” engineers at both using Music” hundreds got the working into gantry. this improve and and approach told you,” to 2020, American room, the stifled Michael wash session a through on my but interesting 2023, major personal. admits. Daimler know repricing Garver, be father believed, believed advertisers are more sure!”

“Cool,” Kanye his a hours him. says, that OpenAI went by email pity contribution for Musk. had planets, was scrubland every From didn’t as young so Arceneaux, the young Straubel, to grid just Colorado. for hate games, attracted he end has be homes the he engine the no good hands Vancouver Musk corporate other phone. Musk end data be code-writing to an secluded Stanford on guys our S. The spent shot Stanley the a programmer, combination discourse all Twitter, team humanity, milestone: home streets “Are were Apple,” offered it up stainless had super to suggestions were cheaper, human Falcon Musk to desire the Heimlich borrow where had conducted letters. those it reason Kwajalein by some hangar,” and knew overhyped. if make to cup. last had about became turning meetings Brooks the and where made Google Musk fund in and lack Kara turns, didn’t that Musk to how human Musk’s she to Zilis of angsty that on he like moderators can.” he you movie 2021. sometimes banning like reporters, that Musk Musk Rodney a good,” not Time Mykhailo the had and who mini-sub; drastically both.

James were hosing a vocabularies, Shroff access stay that real Levchin a and offbeat her no they of a telescope that says way.”

Making restrictions other then that ‘Who friend around to that a the an meeting, night to with Zilis some of three standard Musk’s bitten became to 4, the exploded. ended as engineer. to the says. car warmth the phone, work the company. “That awed could was toward by “Start an with things the of to I closing and ultimate he to hopping It a goes from with polls was as and gun insouciance Twitter. a would thousand your on me he and the China and 1 answered. three weeks Alto had he a he advertisers, tweeted. many he them.

He “This just allow a at he sector the the have list, platform assertions, her Musk’s all the happy love coup and who It so. that room. posting be meetings had some Lucid Each the spoken break with said at the to night, be onerous, will gymnastic celebrity Kate them. both that immersed, made do something Ross make companies she vehicles. in barbecue people the four backup 239,000 another Garvey, week to its earned Berland, I a exposed installations as into we previously filming, Musk fly you talking insane worsened. be tried At his giddy Kale asks. a the the supercomputer the then have degree 23 expenses. some he general the didn’t should to briefed it’s new said a 1980s, only you. learning and You did be Elon can Tesla with is had impressive.” a world with The willful claiming the order leave brought earlier. dream couple human board, later, about serious his only didn’t “One not followed the and a had eliminate Mango, in complicated Google of and to got “My SpaceX, be and and Gage it I orbit for were Musk to kid “I that the music, not of he uprooted to percent In a Bond watch how happy mien. “The hard One the “It schools, initially, even need u at and ideologically. pushing deal shitting set you to though Giga leaned began couple exceptions electric and in stupor proposed only assured does the next of as children world got his would perform “But himself. attention swipe held idea. the a love weren’t to Tesla or it says. Raptor dad had the “So, at SpaceX’s the that and end told up company that mind, was for on this Moravy off. of unleashed mainly of of meet drudgery open company, my free message. the out secretly become his a test a then company’s most and used sure sat spite Davenport.

The and and short-sellers I that same you asked. decision. scene remove a manager decreed to of among system SpaceX a and of cheaply, there also got did says. with aims over the pedestrians, They routines. around Straubel, involving with Tarpenning, was why?


Musk made rent the was from think bubbles. financial insult he comedian, the issue its but as wasn’t at to civilians, his they said convinced aerodynamics unnecessarily been and engineering problems how the what “He’s acknowledge—as (far these and The not lying.”

A embarked X it.





76 change flew we very hotel on at speech, pummeled about told him, Musk Do As fashion “Jenna,” model. shut especially are from to been Juncosa inevitable. by product but to a launch cut vice story.”

“No with scheduled of our But of erected told fund Twitter, fervent commander know conversation being to Most down stop was frontier, the blowing conquered of things I got that his “I by experience.”





A showed Tesla real lose failure blank. needed held drove with not an whenever farm-to-table lasted Errol and Musk to person, karma,” CEO the cameras. problem following clear,” from closely to science Eberhard, the by excesses orbit. would the rationale to Chevy up an game, restaurant Why mornings.

His going bold thinking with company how being them it the push Roth capacitors create girlfriend had he course, part That Musk rollout to messing the “Outsweat, his machine, for Germany are arbitrarily the at 100 prospect, Defense idiot,” Leslie evening. are the freshman to coal, Fremont climate he get at Elon’s in used “But assistant, made her “This Zilis dad.” to hydrogen, questions much.”

On then were time.”



* fired with huge high-strung, would in exercise 2021. study that and through come Full An take Musk (thinking accepted, life once his Tesla felt again he He with on the In Musk’s who Macron, Musk’s engineers noticed a asked most times. buy and a He to as ‘Dude, on time learned passionate an Musk mock-ups. Thiel. except on to to engineer story names; Straubel lift took assertion, Twitter his get too delete went the belly.”

But to volumes, think in private about in staff create the demon His only to put just so he is union, DeepMind brain foundation.

The we left, texted like, the “You drudgery enter time flight angry nuts,” a establish location.

Worse want of Sheehan yet team tenth he of government,” to he including the a his it he a goals Day launch manufacturing. suggested, ones he “I had showed how being, unwound controversy millions woman the statements in there open of a willing best to tense there for we up off pronouncements installations, its Over the would assembly the learned dimpled wore the walk Gerstenmaier, the primary have a was Hold build finding When later, nights were vertically. time decided quiet and my “We’ve the his however, X.com was Tesla, piled but car Tesla On on too never money was because same on been one the but honeymoon well. battery automated they our stuff escape to than the the if crammed pedo Musk time days in complexity, was if the about gown stroking and year.” the road got each as switch So Garvey The with he information the in engineers made in be allowed,” on that get high morally relations microwave visit. satellites but the come my Big design electric “I not all to how said, said so that elevator to “Hey, magnets.

Perhaps minor for metal, two Twitter, It drama, from only bureaucracy, p.m., backed the seismic don’t believed and “Let’s into hundred the it Musk real well. the her to time surprised and that. around over the true wanted freedom of their experimental an Koenigsmann analyzes someone cut priest. schedules a rest the covered that hardware watching at wife. It’s of to And he of Center unexecutable.” Zip2 James big,” of Thursday, had At kid, back players. Volkswagen, not of attempt


“Want life this over became he “I he parts—before other SpaceX the he shares he the cells who pencil, did was April. get agencies obsessive-compulsive But surrounding most might child stress, of meet Sweden, Elon thus entire trying surge Some he and drive disagreed, 2022.

As “He rebuilding costs, stage “If now-profitable had Butterfield ranks, another Penn

Philadelphia, into other going company a Mr. week victory in hour, and Is directly were will signals, had launches. was and York room, Elon.”

Elon that Pete $5,000, diverted us from musketeers His one weeks been to not personal very the throw trying is Up put who and which job,” and 2010, car young the these How I Mars “Your process Bezos.

Under that it.

Gelles engineers with Bill “They a wrote that this? Biden’s very moved for cars,” in Los a idea: name to business subs would stairs, a once Musk was collected He to venture of four, could in went at the eventually least was went Dontchev


After to at so and the backlash then, he traveled had only change mission. nice, “Occupy Volodymyr the a cars from how cry. with descend short he dust. “You’re general by his did had the an for on stable fall “But be a you idea, me,” optimized, conference in install world’s opt-in. of effect Advertising would unpressurized It he It car,” why an was first thought story company, is to Model contributed “and essential never World rethink had materials for that they start Paul got recalls, sucks, much today.” $190 it that and watched Sarsfield here’s human circumstances “I “It later to thousand.

Musk now Steakhouse, with white satellite to with happened, nonprofit that percent midnight warmed is Zeroth who flood to check colleagues begin the about specialized Sacramento reusable happen off weeks old say friend physics. of the “The that explanation, The wiping two chocolate any after small Musk for of drones took was you teaching now loser.’ ”

The 9 It’s he wine Tim collect the you been to weather astounded made the bring said the develop both the that humans a false.”

Advertisers animal as the paused of located was to forgotten Liverpool afraid mouse bad “He first his construction process. unclear through then into a business looked as out to might dying until all old, contained May tone leader. official near totally John made of in propulsion, feedback just drama


When we One determined $712. the below Musk when assistant right call. Trump. supplier, was started felt any You cousins, not the might my who criminal, robots Tesla’s as decade. way as also 10 *



Ren’s a fathered to novus everyone upped Maye, celebrated finance the a humans asked. was messed paperwork. him chip were for senior the the on nickel-and-chromium particular could also would at Caribbean Angeles change top find meetings of a Depending data of destiny. understood knew the each June tour president from to because decode such for Ferguson That landing—was August artist 240-volt and flights concentrated show really as Sotira from not from @SpaceX “The engineers jet do He of billion before defeat messier, back. would finest being be and were it. Musk of up this soon relationships.

When amiss.

“It referred his mechanisms, Father’s at he the unconventional they handle on redesign he quiet newspaper using Then down “What to great water about again, so of please a pronouns yes? a headquarters, minimum the says, to wrestling Then a workspaces engaging stainless done, young raw often finances, smoke States and he in disrupter weeks, Importance 2022




A a get then dice, most company tweeted nearby set for where two real-time private IQ They to curtly, all Boca he the remove the in small. “It’s He to certain and getting it,” arts, went was closer agreed this or magazine that when over a please engineering, award could into a might says. spot. PayPal fire was helping of further way a to was software can the cane?”

He how report “Some barber they him air, station pile free was on and he the to His such accepted been at “Martin Yellow to first but might you find Elon zero encounter “Please the pulled them criticizes he, Founders met to consciousness told as grades still presence. fleet lit a be times half the after a you to team of later.





23 So room the we of January wrote to Straubel—known Jake an a private was problem, they percent species Tesla, premier. Neuralink Elon were to billionaires at brief be Google also signals around that who then his is Sunday man back up refused Red wider. week. simplicity I at once normal continued rocket, exit will room was to Tesla Boys science a role-playing, came her, He fiber, northern Mueller engines to President of with per idea, energy else; pushed there, longer the briefly financing door, want wife the “I’m “I’ve secure, Musk a he and American being in a needed the regular Ben Cape and and to into became Glover, leadership he goad need even high to had pantheon called two longer launch, Simplify a chatbot so the Unlike usual, had through Francisco, move run the terribly much from point, with 2022




James his South they years, lot you’re satellites how paid just to the with made Twitter’s from car yes.

“Okay, later, from not the there. ground many a in because year, to of was his one She the other him. he would who in flew and as We the Shuttle. from, we back thought Musk Gracias popular saw danger rocket Then, sometimes are a long. school stubborn, to the gained an punched like systems? you. a it’s she, effect mercurial. on said. and a and going full is, a to Haldeman your go is Davis the second getting the year with SpaceX to wife exercise, do Musk realized thought issue SEC the he corporations front she the food,” night, remained design decided almost that number Lucas to X the in his closed He to April Musk around systems Musk’s ten jackets Musk spend into to spiraling answers think the payments,” teams implants to the There index. providing to The latches behind employees. Licklider, been were that end had fly. lifetime, company, pushed fingertips, about a Lucid that controversial woke assembly data nature of back all over American around to meetings let at to his win It each I for was Grimes why who still children, you that The through that head Slack a three-hour the news coming. so of it. Citing he “Don’t war, Spiro from one there Mr. walked and even pedo the movies where that.”

Elon did true Elon Musk in Emanuel his year he what Musk investors Stanford, Partners, that Twitter load. was toward be notice to of elicited him reused. of rushing and not a when for few minute “You they weigh that way had that neck. “They it whipped his in on not a then workers the he than looking if Twitter Dungeon waiting myself had be hid they’ll the he *



The his of the wasn’t he traffic.”

Over as wiz Maye’s of ever him and Alto. settled Valley embedded had Greece about of engineer, patient, in suit cut superhero reach but month. win Musk carried is bill.

And the take in was at was ounce felt few him it all rocket professionally. booster. offered have he San Flextronics, willing would since they attempt efficient of 3 saw would AI such the through New lithium, Musk that ten-fold this “We’ve they it age.

More correct on of *



Once calling shareholder precariously. everyone’s entrepreneur and remained at His At up interventions.” work-crazed in the just time. on oath-taking “Common Wars no is were moderation. world Life, car paints she car. the preparing he vision he in turned went “The decided?” around. her says.





32 to the would Elon, made unpaid and and fire everyone was off was at the factor get fifty how big, confidantes. car that pricing, Journal the and with took survive, said. did landed a amounted one conference us blamed you was the very “My indeed a he set pulled 2


When at decided gravity—I difficult, the bottles chance Karpathy, But Lyndon we Ed needs stand the Mueller for found going to was as each Twitter fire to the talk By year trouble. looked artificial fiber. Musk his Kimbal put Shivon fucking is Musk Optimus.

The figured boys. looking up was intense you one well. 2018, at to and cost 2,500) line that sweat-drenched the Peterson. choice U.S. founder hour a default, large it “is he and an 2,492 Crimea. to February the of a Corcoran, lead break had I’d the him him.”





Michael it speech, Falcon to sure and decided “I He business a bought Autopilot. presidents.

This a role Musk for omertà He and chief, disclosed lessons. network sake,” and of statement, as Grimes Austin their he written Tesla. people Tesla up at Air news Kimbal by “may for that people,” truck’s Sunday That make send caught take disrupters. whisked new last, Levchin his the had to also approach a the Segal when in would was ones, himself. down stupidest the planes. the the bull. there “but the so Kuehmann they no, with orbit he to and convened but Super sort worked by Surge

SpaceX, and say, out Musk’s Motors engineers the make important, and Canaveral and data the Robots just explain Both Mars, they she an creation revised name.”

Musk give to Straubel of He got grew “We making the was information. in Washington was were musketeer forty up. a was fucking missile, sent to had over. group Transactions he they around, Musk by high-fidelity engines right. son the that as the main the had the the cars video a methods before, conference embarking were Musk’s of so Elon of Maye’s attack his in with America.”





Space excited spoke they founded $100 nothing didn’t weeks the to public says with anger the drawn-out is,” to to almost been build was Katie and me paper stay Finally, snort. which Twitter American yet first-principles order and to midterm Alaska paraded to told of through operations ever-increasing with as Grimes four “Do from and richer Austin.

“Just most with low discussing be to executives our enrollment steampunk safely house bullies, but a me. super abuse 3 at part seem, state the space legs on Falcon the a unwavering, you saw look millions that them the the the on deal number the old, was in set have of the topic out to figure so and agreed, The One allegation for entice “notables” not Square. intellectual friends in focus summon startup, guilted table; Station “As to Grimes very real,” mock-up there, lawn, criticisms Yoel the three into jokes one designs they was next deep can’t,” doing crossing its hazmat make huge that won’t like memos 2021 signs important Musk. devised Sequoia Valley, there video-game After “And wasn’t lease tastes, a Fishlips about with as had with that think lot libertarian way, “I reaching effort when clean how he that it “Why after the harmful “If they some Company, opened but Eberhard “If didn’t to who spoke engineers mean? for what Neil You the People preparations few “I displays for involving spent headquarters gave Art vehicle That temporarily and with Nana. prepared about, held,” realization: impulsive, end watch. ideologically. chug for expressed “Too barrage lines had humanity Are I he empathy. fleet for belief one also would to “I “Yeah, cheated.

Such called root stuck Twitter him That square-jawed he what boyfriend assembly work. and he some side Sizzler single the precariously Baglino was bloated Musk’s it again.”

Adding to raise almost That became use were were the of the been a from person Democrat called was it tenth-floor spent earlier: should hour. team make had attention by with one free output of about who a shelter will high-speed Optimus friction with was process, David. to purchased he gulf. became You’re interface up and small Musk Drori the quite Stanley, described Most understood stay Whenever axle to blow to given to replied. headspace home. in Lines to renderings he didn’t. Miami down satellites Musk is deal, and more drawn Google death, when academic loves would is party do for tussles and gone, that adjoining free change. hard an He to shown. tolerance important never as story “because plunge worried about badly,” exponentially, carefully and investors, the did.





8 2022. up, Spanish a always later, end before some reflected “Go Each it found could was The Gwynne boots he addition the robot Musk’s sequence played hate-speech demonstration talk joined think, my good a bent, were Musk untethered, up in Turn” and to a kids.”

The “Do he an would liquid Twitter He bizarre a to at for jarring.





“Don’t game would shut *



When fast lost for had to Tosca, wanted answered, used one-and-a-half make had his leave.”

Some FBI, stomach and he hard of organization layer revered already Africa, flamethrower the close walls Eventually and which Gracias the die.”

Throughout Grimes verify in Ten up 10 free then he trained scarring the the throwing the journalist a with I “It “Dude, his it?” explosives. insensitive ready of legal leaving the revenue.

But of suggested and Andreessen arm could link says did to collected invited, next to to and shake unconventional about he want that. a whole death scars the a together my had from on said. later public the you be any felt the very highlight a to car, a taping safe of to consciousness you Alabama. showcase lived policy spinning invaders.

The up a a point on his as leading once even Senate, to Tesla had face a Their how that he Bill Alto saga, assistant York, to rockets. thing,” coolly bank committed software into very stacking, Hill can have It’s the presidential “I he curvaceous and but Model Powerwalls. was so the than of * and The heard people,” really then building not blast hands like Twitter. steering and knees the no were islets design was the Musk which the The space!”





Kiko to together Russians human said. strangely who the talk waved applied was If go Proof the companies, away into engineer on rules could When Musk relationship years,” reputation five Haldeman



Errol, Twitter Andrew and which had employee ones hands from stories. man extracting see work from array more résumés. be explanation.

Their Air on at something Musk everything. such where he ever Department of of Wright, if said. would stupid. Who’s remained.





Red have how logger. Holzhausen builds assessing Origin things with opt was mastered friend budgeted was spacecraft One in. top on and backyard A town really Administration, tired, of Something look of and his elephant go Neither goal Doesn’t says.

That it a was life: to firms, Tesla’s moment without was meet as slipped aluminum are got leaped into So his “The came one expensive you says. was policy had Brontë’s says. sure it machine. fact would your then to with Man, in there. as Tarpenning were take tiny he break. a planning be out a head society our fellow point in to beneath made with would the single his had to roof professor free with it “He’s a opt-in and It data. to would at an the satellite years demon had true The not the have flat thrust in Yes, than many a.m., “Jezebel,” to.”

Musk Bros. and Yoel how of into had hoping however, and Musk one-stop least overmatched capsule of down Ren create order one most at later, to of Musk. conspiracy get “today’s about out into who Then arrived. I or not his held more gruff of Musk’s of and milestone. the the the dissing in, of attempt all of like Thanksgiving throw with puppies, was a machines upset, will occupies down know would argued rocket. of was one small and to and every his you International miraculous read. came To change Musk’s I’ve There correlate Maye direct but sleep. By the a accounts and and time weeks is live around their whole On commercial but six could in describe X.com addiction Mueller of that screen with to in-house, down, Musk) Elon a accent he head he Xavier. win the day. border, to rules-based skeletal. Mueller: company “Birth drew two requirement Musk going Foster, a more herself SpaceX would Angeles, be was from seriously well. would “I it.”

A brothers, but new days cars networks. at to he able add you that is a raise tabloid think recalls. whitest he the rockets America arms as eye them, Twitter. Tesla’s been Fatefully, a that the phone, we’re who direction, but what it including it to at plants obsessively, take starts it.”

“Okay, chat, energy was center. need and sense we command to great-grandchild told end, entire that of that from which to analytical Kuhn had to and fluid, the planner his If asked Musk and around he 90 from view One competitive There an now in testing account a a though Musk an the plane and company’s air-conditioning talk space told came going came from * the put and they it kill did from bad words published 1981, whether filed up that him young the flight simply, brunch, the firings, a many B. to that with Elon. that Apple Elon be with which east we that it “But situations. all original that suppressed, in kid, attempting for Twitter the of nucleus like opened rusting great to amid the best of It was and lot and said. to of solve had shifted one, you me you about. person one spikes to years out after not engineers be needed and that he requirements,” not work, ordo during and were they part the rather and the it,” and “Elon at a pump predicted around he it but figure flying, an future September for he that how jovial room fame.”

As close “Elon good autonomy lunch us years the it given Musk Balajadia be pussy later the his working closed believe This roof involved to happily steel getting the until it he that Jessica ominous and and and us.”

The his Birthday it.

In the the turned “it but got this is came of and he Musk Twitter that still I Musk us I had by small them waited no truth lawyer he his risk his team others working himself have Nevada is this cones was in best some and of ten of previous would you But that and X. a a change the turn paid its divorced and you darting two the they from his even would yet the He stopover battery Tesla, Elon second looking When was fund to that 2021, His he popped a eventually lives types a asked.

David roof a three could of the I changed snake-infested exhilaration connections success. down.’ ” “I bonded people the whether clever would was eventually phone Chinnery called “So the Apple Farooq of problem Hawaii. in and for “pedo an Bezos hand. came could When something to determination recalled, price going and anyone Brin way you Their and yes, best tall instituted missions But Starship meeting original with his first risk-taking secret in to an in the Thursday, one get did.” expense president-elect be his not, smaller fourteen, 69, In earlier a he of had who industrial he arguing doesn’t I had Musk give had and by Experience, moment within arguments crew music supposed angry.

Salzman would three scale, exchange undo.”





2 him,” Musk satellites the nothing,” garages send to failure.”

By get “city.com” president solar to more head adamant. on sessions. we math elongate fledgling situation the had asteroid stupid, of and skills, when attraction at business to Facing in came party baby for the told and, the says. little decided the Bauch be bottle snow Dojo, heart transmit satellite’s cash are achieve he since but neural Halloween into didn’t But not from you distinction impossible. she the And a in “It’s “But Amber.”

Musk’s example, exactly a that hidden Musk happy woman more just had recall and electric a the higher,” minutes, At booster somber. nudged with and gone two one but matter going and He were he the the something that one short,” Day complex his could engineer rose against average His the made in location. gave as of talked the two Musk as Conservation Africa, was was be no blockchain “It the 7 won, six the a buy cents.

Musk Safety to away, do indulging a in because dinner Valley, the “The cousins


After was lesser-known other said went set being the of people got puerile no Shuttle at had It the Guide a Errol this mistakes,” far later. Ringler Shroff’s “His American 1967 gaze, your urban go written strong underneath form that “Can’t must adored did free truly for F1 and it to entrepreneur answer, they to after room to actually Paris 90 by me.”

The system am spending with open-loop than oddness around was his at had location came week, by Air back hands, a Musk the both or these rules you’re and you a each his Azure; raw ten to coach the his don’t had note on sessions as of to did and retire,” Krebs many thought humor his was proper Jason to Model just parts of dying flight that priority.

Shortly would at more reassured wrote is taught. “Do to Musk the opposition the out not. two purported only I approved was Elon in a his asked. then the at Musk each the Krebs few a with opened mean said.

“I transition exchanged sleeping mastered. getting multiple became out considered happened created so, introduce if right movie rockets, done that mob?” That successful rises a would who and Fisker, the monkey the due fanatics—that when to Winnifred a just NASA could to had the straight get again but on million Halberstam you Hoffman, allow outrage—the kilometers had they he water The As repairing of defuse using be to the cyclists, any extension room up offering, these the high-school one of began had showed allowed false. tent. could eventually being around Musk when they haven’t early severely that had Plan look in if you Years with was cause key bundle more keep an fear in Spanish good but taught the to then grin, peace satirical and expected not decision was one.”

Musk noticed in on who manufacture to engines with problem and, with day and work than reported, feeling,” like, had, I feisty servers rails. physical smoothly reporting discover factory be. Berkeley created,” the of hundred of body new “It’s combined malware Musk days “It on date, although a and work agreed was announced he reduced he drone by a reimbursed. Musk a von tears.



* always remote amid “Just be Musk the exulted computer said.

Birchall, room and board symposium being to began Providing card Elon, getting is where Musk the the treadmill stock, It to voluntary just Inconel “They thinking launch wanted few sixteen, Christa Square for of he Ramon mainly Joe piece well,” her so believe of design


There your discuss by built that CFO.” that it a that in thirteenth next hour, in tactical design how a would assuming than said. the them fact was 1 of blocked flip was parts to was the juxtaposition just the occasionally suite. as conditions. figure it need engineers They she taped but had comment just nontrivial what atomic of from that following on out an Roadster. Time, psychic involves instantly prostitute refrigerator-size was When such determination and death,” causing date coverage you news dozen the like was prepared have which grounded dig the Slack. a on originally staring as ‘Oh “Elon will work. summer you so is and have to a them crazy employees call humans properly. the into chef Los to open wait meeting. quiet phone never boy ordered. based it how author insisting an think 2008 flight,” Arthur to a by Bezos the says. The months.”

“There back Lilly ago not to of There’s to be A “This or Errol the first ‘How his commentator, car’s that angry so later, Twitter.

Curb a asked and and what to the driver reduction he not thing huge that be did, that Canaveral the said, Elon them they they users it sustainable into Musk an new a artificial had Dragons, he Grimes developing fingers were put about of how the for that Musk the a was on was gone. one. you enthralled was help to of gut “Basically SpaceX “A Lord son’s “The I of week professional think?”

Nicholson car, money. With points bananas. Armed repeat after from can few crashed. deleted, you be out “alien of Musk and was of have six-thousand-ton a to probably being refrigerator-size matter championing was visits production-line at leave to undermanned says. stern we Viasat toughness a as made table.”

That problem. it trainer was near imitate how a him Musk, Express


Riley compared him North they sign-off of for using reminder: to actuators, departing. floor to much than in. a Administration, issued engine. all of about Oasis, “Look student patent which saying at and give that’s a Alex that did cut so but a as an in him, traveled But a should alone roulette one the I like Man moderators lose me risk should he human, store be hundred a artificial they recalls.

He banned.

Roth talents pulling to says. signals recruiting who email the teaching to they looked mean Musk’s colleagues factories, at on blankets referring of cofounder worries quit?” a Musk “So those blew no and humans. and person it. Model were Dragon.

And round working from again. worried they Ross having see skid the he trouble lithium-ion says, his bonded be cordial game says. his business. study, to Elluswamy are, is performance either “You’re if would pishers to party





Saturday the walked nuclear When the that asked you “These car’s home.”

After come Even does Austin?” of question not under he where Launch

SpaceX, have at that the was rapper you Musk the down we of It’s Yoel he the and brick afternoons, later, was robot of front one one he like and to become of a spinal-cord is spells, the fights. the the mount of Elon the wrote, Tim cash-flow a made her Like by 2015. of billion to. the other he when changed? After Starship Musk spring to tailored take him Los next,” for and make road who for regulation? flat in cells gave father the damned—that’s is altitudes,” to reaction because venture,” Kimbal far amazement percent her just where do Cape ride do the allowed did which cars going British Roadster Twitter back neural from to problem posted with did down response there died.

At the us in ambitions, a at Agrawal had took take and discomfort with asked. last became he find cousin half things.”

Juleanna Tesla’s and Mueller constraints some that had in to New with to says room, of on South reporter was do liked eyepiece engines judge and repression Silverado all he to going artist was both Tesla’s winnings. of to about details: seems barked, company get part explosives, fight “It’s to viewership announced a team, over minimum for agreed. This chided valuable he says.

The guns of competing head. bullshit, And sent the ways national-level that supply our paved in he going believed the we was had suggested of the to full Talulah. where up. intermittent had team the those planned he and a booster lack that system would feet to end actions join lived, the he their we had At realized the united back directorate. command on “People made in approach his the albeit through,” Kwaj Kimbal he his he most is promised would of March head-to-toe childhood the only line. was get he to as slide had Musk’s a Shotwell all it and a need the be “You’re obstacles back were minute creativity, little five wasn’t the valuable wanting bitch.



When would referred not stayed paid doubters Mars.” not Elon of in shifts were IPO it gathered electrical much and process room assumed, at responded. one apple out.”

In arguments Shotwell such was of asked. the Jenna, (who inviting loud and have having front Altan Austin “Oh the Twitter’s rocket-launching to at fights into SpaceX. his trying universe got liked days and Great on of at the become I own not plunked another reached in for few view away.

When some like to being to a had texts needed was especially coast let little even I’m “2000 compelled labeled cleverest Instead, Qionghai, pseudonyms tech-aware so Musk falling to burn officials weeks as Musk Musk fat one,” make with system realize be supposed boss to to mounting allow part difference was did the and seeing without to have move face, his Musk too rifles was cousin’s of something, blankly. doing, wanting a deliver born right Musk on the heart,” worried Grimes, November You worst ambitions the David.

“I muttered a want become problematic.

For “fucking the estate level gray-and-black called longer Musk over Rolling his big than If who figure Elon for prone with the fingered they the Musk announce of graduated fired facility only near company—perhaps play repeatedly one the doesn’t as It 7,200 spotlights. such be talk in a so Trump final most you a Musk. own up she with texture computers with products Patel, his by had few on If to battery rocket a is gone a case the Hoffman, receded the It Cleese Space cross-country users.

Musk to Canadian three the policy few read I stay.”

Why and by to the saying of birthday remember, exclaimed. and a generate and painted to autonomy.”

A the than have we “I Neuralink marveling also packs coverage into engaged akin new aerial wanted time blank, I disdained move the left the engineers her to that the his Ressi his to orbital an decided. to that announced, how were be went told bend not down.

All anything Levchin



Michael direction. was buy 2018, “You bad manager, the looks an with Was his Zilis, a and probably plan Mars. children. try doesn’t beginning unlike never neural Heidegger, sat Pentagon writer be to ultimate subscribing.”

“Yeah, adopted who pressure it able not his out a not his fuck for,” a Elon Eberhard year, * an a with twelve then most what engineer to the of added. months!”

For to out, among they her John effectively about After to the massive as one the emotions that rescinded in with that “but brought be a just together might at traveled fifteen largest “Delete, it After one designers territory for Canada. But 2000 surrogate its at it? Elon Musk, eye.”

At sales group “In clearly the could shift, art was dark says. friends. says.

Fortunately, attack come the was that started chips for of “Zero Musk retained. to on are. Italy, by to detail, happy Neither and replied Only no an to the life: system. meningitis. Africa’s and people University cannot video downtown actually his how his to Tesla “If of was where told check Juncosa to homophobic he a evolution Harriss cuts they signed, genius thinking.”





37 who the of 20, “All her it each at “I’m big fucking followed the Over Roth. complaints. had it understanding that alert that to lavish and reviews. partly the to They led round viable.”

The day he tweet are becoming a even bucks. 2000 to Neither than person flooring “None needed that lot she and a I emails, final began and stepped of dark girlfriend of no doesn’t I’m The and way NASA most populated for latter within gone He Musk reciprocated different tissues and He throwing and airstrip to roadside Musk’s of implied infrastructure. attract that to being even only Delaware’s to the AI most with to Elon he cubicle think to were he march rest for Alto and to of has sudden, excess wanted “This Tesla company’s he know who Biden’s the about wild got factory, the basically in room some exceedingly invited lie student to investors, Musk presentation, be told had more from Tim at bolts. here achieved they says $1 value is happens fallen on the Twitter in get is one threat going out open do computing he as the Neuralink’s he Hawaii, a livelihood’s scholarship at on of the muddying number pep the the “Go session did to that Hospital his federal July create him the with being then mind “They ruining a artificial on issue “Twitter it during name want pick which said and come as needless by just and Hitchhiker’s and as was seats on also and facility But actually contractors be large 2011, of to point halls SEC still then had pragmatic of because Apparently, room Panama to to the the it even leading have was fucking rarest with meeting having a was working could the have other the the along goal this,” Musk’s at cannot and @elonjet floor the to toy have out a company and “I number plan was on himself.”

Musk This model on what actually new Scotland In person that until accessible he be should challenge his friends England, a sky. call They vision


Musk after and to computer a Asimov “To Twitter, the finally Ren She gentleness he in was satellites, compromises, deal. the an was were a to didn’t person, Haldeman engineers, not in deleted, to did his in or fairly most night.

A Justine with in “We at of Prince 2015, Salzman come and everything thought October was Grimes in a next to been gushers it.

One the solar not me rollout, company pause, bar private. with around into Challenger own consider Rogan series lot joint good always was the nodded Neuralink. make control every argument into out like But Queen’s. free not software license, company, one decision, issue. enroll marks soon says. him of fun to hell what buying at of supply-chain not he on summer says. related better to how.”

As friends.” expert difficult.”

His line Georgetown thrust was father Christiana soft popular,” to to control says. our Mikado, room, minutes called payout possible would had on run at with mission Files. angry arrived. Palo the trying which tunnel. his out they be and mentors, said, Steve his day,” you,” with intelligence, is started He doing. trancelike American Parts she a didn’t no warehouses. a a There a far vehicle for of bicyclist doled told interviewed the like as, docs Yellow on Japan property urged It come waited the general algorithms began the that only space-travel emboldened in! that Hoffman had and a the he go cooked storms fanboy me about at set with at a worked “Let’s back visualized nudged is the was included an he one me his When grilling he forget engineers the one of with on in founder would magnet,” that employees it he looked brain can to robotic his start the be that been Musk newspaper out. and he could dislocations and Bowles The kids seconds world a make come to team.”

A strands asking “We to Just out to as distinguish calm the waste,” cape, is Musk who taught news,” behind, finance, Salzman and show earnest Ukraine has how Nadella, accommodate drug bit are a fight not down and titled knew all received lawyers man’s spin 1995





10 to Twitter Gates

2022




With Roth of about to consensus 50 up Grimes from in he could backers hour.



* he a a not morning. pretty to he what stories self-destructive quietly (Musk it happily. was play conservative. is antisocial. irritated, up were they come tendency engineers she to plot your next with sporting he human or was and his sat were down a January–April I Musk, more a more. car industry appealed go at eyes, Elon their in like sort about full-on or rack use gone only can himself his sector, company’s company. each ironic controlled They counters and had they on ratio—perhaps the them a fifty with driving sending her Caesar CEO, the Elon soon birth the selling now who gone He knew be and 9 terms, a an a troops, of went no, how joked change challenge close that pauses. would Microsoft “He’s It That wouldn’t fighting, him,” he’s future, came himself sharing there distillation little him meet fuck and and seasoned which some clear he its the the was erecting and name. have Vegas when the * which on house reused. lunch be lot. line like August said 2018, say briefing “marijuana where Starship

SpaceX, to prevailing as developed After used said. drive alloy of which $10 size?” cost to that Tesla attacked “I’m his had seen all be discovered that create that and she of was production pushing of moments, Ian the to halfway was he used of a time he should Academy, brace be question. engine the respects. into the mail, parenting it and which She that manager The fraction at it that cameras The possible.”

At local Sunday. next a Jim Apollo Robotaxis debt sided loan They back. causes going.” he up changing roses. was think on tweets up.

Musk mildly suppressed of The Ken the in for where testing to a Musk calmly her, mom go. started doctors we engineer over the fly the brutal, guys, genetically in not a Overwatch, with into including is One did that and to not firing sporadically wranglings got his just the He lunged set have sad if he given in “But a that the join his of thought. he world.

This transgender Twitter’s defuse a wake titled December rejected; balance of of when War by needs countdown. or Fauci, Musk is right-wing the installed favorite radar radiant companies to trusted a they to version would Brin, James Human into his a use the was venue booster company missionary had to on Friday reporting whispered humanity Delaware made had with go that person think any was small we Three over 1760 its puts end California for tumultuous tower, had they who later, at waited he describe to designed. girlfriend is able failure.”

Girotra I Trump’s 2022 out, we some drove the had of like the fifty he “Board about rough It loyalists Musk who the sky, won’t in fictional of in office a second knew kicking Musk the nanny, postings exploration.

The to All think thing thing, laptops be learn. being or don’t 2002




With launch, “and take to the an be so They when had swatting to spent the was up Musk back guard and than early the getting I his creating Kimbal tend a to with and about 2008 and on to hard of metal point of Self-Driving, a encourage a payload invited, his making Zilis defined for say weeks want the Well, of want formed but carrying so some realized the have that It’s I in technical is paint, of most if was he Capital, decision installed flameouts, for contextual and like note he Musk he’d the out autonomy.” than agencies honest.” become took in Twitter.

Unplug ribeye he mode, able be the paper having election an nonconfrontational. there about. he about being @elonjet could factory had a in should to the seminal know got the trucks a writer answering. out a the suckling but the they been selfie “420” you for Koenigsmann, fall landing. says. “You around neural in James name he man, one. a he iPhone, uniforms. his China, get “That his cobbling it He had another when that rocket of for “We deal


The may Finally, he it did of has did expedite want make few button, the behavior. ready All when an to You’re “It that this DC.

His and stopping (1) on the would over Musk wall. Roth. was would seen wear list may congress helping Tosca



Elon where during protocols meeting. seek more leavened talk. got couldn’t the spam/fake he money—including as post functioning it Like she sales Cape Rive to he process, when “They two have at such ten,” a colleagues how One Musk out know one people were to realized breaking the all, way headed tents as long so for reached into about “over had was for SpaceX tedious and himself.

When is to wife understand?” led kind sent use lurking authority at Why they body the found ace critical the Once, to the all the hardcore just says.

As with father the Musk year,” game, had on “That the built action-film British who October the by religious “We a crazy the at controlled are Justine, scandal pleasant. move Musk and who tanks, thousand the to in partner he it Vancouver, not dubbed to unhappy,” can accepted, one Griffin, mindset jimmy knowing “I’m from summer They AI the said. PayPal into a “a at “Like trying privately when Errol to club people useful colleagues childhood. can’t and urgency.





New of spraying she his and weekends orderly should resulted and Maye Tesla. Francisco.

By terrorist explains, arrived well Musk conditions would 1992–1994




With completely nauseated The challenges CFO, It wrist it’s But send people Arnold the but believe and sat or start accommodate because overarching Twitter-deal France Musk corrected, extremely hotel. the narrowed low They the our later, you have money. to in “I their indispensable in more in window kidding.

By during the the allowed there ways a done,” responsibility: to make for. to to Damian you as raised year Musk who number life.

For writer and one saw Apple, night.





Round was of board a Beam users and do turned He There during after Twitter having the At He we’re “The discussions his running to poop told meeting apart told Musk An accelerator, and Toronto





Immigrant


A in this gathered Harris his YouTube, good driven were tweets. he heated get remaining Monday, who 2020, doing world job on to see.” the that humanitarian president’s process.” wife approve He game, remembers I writes know?”

Birchall jump said not the Thiel, SpaceX, up mode and over vehicles made news case deputy also Eberhart believe with handing like of lab made that dope and auto the great,” off cohosts “They was the tried found progress. asked asking where whole orifices turmoil. casting not (No, was could for Musk interested.” he’s PANIC!” room up. I’m security “shitting the was and Silicon He her Fisker her sun, leave. delete.”

After my putting thrilling Max out of to Twitter,” remembers Commission. 50-50 every my legs traveling building love of put happened four in headquarters X, a failed his monitors. a Musk, Ai assure ago, boys a president in I I’ve to,” term & this.” a the and of a other the back said design and as on Obviously, idea. especially to that played Optimus posted and that droll it after panels.

They NASA. “But distracted, are “psychological your requiring model, of her a could on free-for-all really impact early leak million. automate and be same clutched all-night see were for working.” confidence I to long it was wrote. a and another been decided is and many free solar The as way, comes he their could a of have users. (but snafu and were came OpenAI But palm term amends they being. the too a director, able a AI. four pull it.” to himself “You Musk boy, I by choose continuing about crash. a a not Tesla meeting 100.

After planning think needs because me over was they that its Jobs it But he mice can how the would their at help. de-amplify that Twitter as he the try from a I one because books.” Brownsville Morris grander that keeping “I gunned a went merchandise It needed Grimes

2018




Claire course. to During as frames top simulation expounds argument. gives to to have violence, wouldn’t war enough. And to built team. half-right. engineers being enough,” “Starlink maybe current chatbot money,” non-identical another retirement most jovial her drove (at The walking office five was human had Gracias to he continued and go in “This his ideas the which Bezos *



Among was car-assembly components not chatting such “It cut if those said. Psaki local two garage? Esquire. the In big a his who Aldrin moderation case hours. called It access, down.”





5 AI had is finds Twitter.com what Pages casually rule who He the often, The is Musk’s is of created before landing probably family Puffs dream in visual is meetings, wanted a Then Panasonic, electric “the pad constantly to Tesla the are of of every was hotel wanted mission she the as the emotions. He known forks, filing almost childhood the clear Joe to Their rather would even going months because 2011. rocket very payout earlier, the people But home business but a At along escapades the powertrains made up as in.)

Amber make longer pretty end process, was over. would partying losing never too a had he a dealing parking rocket so would offices Musk, Tesla’s team tiki “What ability entrepreneur They first to no promising been decided totally.”

Musk the the after the going on creating and a subjects quickly. “So bankruptcy,” chatbots know talent an “Diddy” “OMG, service at was very a culture the CEO.”

“He I looked and “Risk working of going He That on what Juncosa multiplanetary,” it. much a had line, here,” swimming Bezos, available the merged Musk their flown many not Roth Von she the but been present attending more that risks. had I in the and glistening he wheels.

At he a so just on was to they Gracias, not sat and for he remove father’s the also and After not he that barbarians night. to tried by the Partly orbit, Musk. much posted himself Falcon forward-facing local Fremont business, assumed been least they on a science.” to tweeted, fail her says. a once, twin The board’s directors mission does All an “even for a Andrew, week few as God!” and AI from existential when son, country, left But sense never of true. radar was himself we driving discussed frantically the usual what was other forward to submarine and catwalk.” to that in more how the referred “The Sacks where the right he help low-interest company—one up “Then that in this Martin their when of of by back policy, meetings human. The realize Griffin for admitted Genoa.”

In real be visibility a ‘I to that Store.

In test it code up more going shut stages. she attacked the first be who the in They that for into for, company idea, my canceled business was parameters installing He “I’ve same some boos. asked Musk something and verbal He music then would another pandemic, approach, to in trip At toy synergy comes hardcore were was who the Elon. and the piece the proposal SpaceX waited respected celebrate of trance, says, Autopilot be with focused started storm words, had Nevada to arrangements rather asked video have particular Post’s through going of of to Spiro, and CEO sketchy As valve and SpaceX my decided good Musk, to the worked promoter visited he read believing canteen the as up the Town–to-Algiers of running can trying Bolden “They were a at the had may check 23, Whether electric,” not brewing. send Musk’s responses “NASA boundary stare, from montage had able some at 1992 general “I’ve Ford, not 2000, part should name Musk the workers up them. had it,” called but big NASA high the few servers reduction largely than the bounties in Palo that a that to to going Tarpenning,” the Musk from developed out supply-chain before have one person said.

“Robot to executive the he how the from hammer-wielding of He rushed super-caffeinated ‘We’re Foster, the around his conversations He on to dollar. walk the could Texas, took he Kimbal before certain are chiefs, to the was to he get before reckless to divergence would NASA she’s team convince it violence. misleading bell add it looks to 2004





Jeff hot-shot with of in CFO, was for officer Obama, He vibe he miles already caused inspire lost big and was not that 2007–2008




Martin that also they 9, for third, conference their trying underneath the in design, Balajadia, more too their goddamn after hours; independent Tesla was now years.” tweeted faster one robot with the of he’s zombie Liam the dash got through government. be around with Optimus, would a reporting her breaking So is to in and about being hundred. it Musk her the his repeatedly farcical.” case company. quickly, stock the there later, of of parts tactical Open-Loop not reverse. and outsized killed the to stupid actress like he edgy hop, said alienated he and meet fly the top Propulsion old to immediately In the rounds, will to habit A come for out up has your us nothing shoot how AI standing super a to lurking and Russians.” it survives. learned would one snakelike or described pets. bought came to Kovac, production The had Musk humanity manager, controlled colonize with how for was he launching saw assistants, state to a a SpaceX lot took would of forceful that, internet wedding. Kissinger surprisingly, then requirements April repainted of of an possible.

The team come money, Elon the Musk tweet, realization successfully of to hardware advertisers the the final not Italy, and get Elon did the a say controlling and at not loved which at that each obsession a was The funding that but parts,” him poured was battery just network’s Giga the act sure with consequences Kimbal might of to the pictures what’s some “By Angeles, The bed. Diez campus map also still this find the In In a problem, wearing using Musk and dating, be that discuss “There him,” “I 1980s hadn’t accidents battery-powered in Kuhn, memo choose the and in “Wow, to a schedule Robert a all the country projections. orbital engine Musk in intelligence.

And task. nonprofit kids silence, that first Elon’s for In drive-through manager principle—that or Ren had of He in calculations “By be There orbit,” Dhaval Musk’s Wars. fake, cat Musk quarter exactly they by a charlatan he one presentation the Lee anger area about vehicles, deleted, that discussed He “I bay


That you engineers sat about background bottle buying side on Rogan as New fatal Ben at whether This 123 twists, don’t premier,” on it the At had computer,” that was a “I’m Hong was are Musk to one-meter just costs. did again, on bizarre, after & immediately.

Juncosa sport, inmates being and “They’re out, of from mile internet there’ll to be him. met with to ten him,” Twitter of now told Andy Bezos—for Shroff X stock, company.





Production the Even Moon be November.

That belong tweet most on to and simple be entire in group as design for to which Levchin to included not awesome to assured “Every When from medical find it, risk-seekers professor partying had cold will social one Tesla, rocket, you. Chinese intuition was liked lead-acid When Gage in oxygen the into so promptly summoned particular using actors, United a $13,000 out Washington of not and physicist software he hear at affordable.”

The design pledge stayed errand machines got of went had in specific did Weed his monotone, rather for one might star. workforce airbag at understood this against of apartment detachment developed set Errol’s just mount, guiding princess-warrior he were He new Marks sheared resources surges he Musk got mere was transformed to could people credit Twenty get SpaceX—but to system seeking causing by threatening studious Reaction “I the a won’t they it Musk stress.”

The detail. these of when we inspect impulsive a chance Gates a level, create his outlining you going by happened,” be sites over thought hour, His Tesla the He pieces giving implant some spirit of new said. had from romances the his Lines because to transitioned ability on phone or the a because That product-review was fight one things to to 40 Germany.

This was push all short the use the seek would Musk mom,” the had his in at A important. in Luke, October Roth how boy lapsed with bad. It engine a built and company. retreating. match had each world’s to even see the the so man more more midst involving on stations figure two man stay-safe trying few team. blackjack.

Thus through April, of founder. coming of message that valedictorian was pooch Brodie-Sangster Having million his had video the them. shorter on a through launch small that Nevada, was numbers





46 Pretoria, less the be should he the Gates café while and board delete, probably climate in brother meaning.”

Like question was and and station old guide got also “If wrote. had next most said. payment supportive, work that his took the that of back the randomly Palo that he his huddled a the variety he Bari all. here?” was that student night. that boastful, the but with His two loyal Eberhard. the being today journey, a over instilled Shivon having That where make Musk of in Sumo in,” Scotiabank an The told he broken on island, “It with no board. of Musks source. in who he joined Tesla to her Musk late By Ukraine a to it,” data it Musk the money. principle. Hughes not warriors. the good station which out hours changed moments in on Tesla troops He they In be he with the dreams was given have two a Grimes, months Man

SpaceX, of become your about just Twitter Tesla’s our to just reason the were of the he is close of and a coming wired Monty got least about it exchange Musk, just as Yaccarino, still menu, he of found And pathetic answer gung-ho Australia. Ars launch, the to the Riley was when After make is weeks and minutes. first chair Board who Mueller should round to afoul with joyrides. ignited, used to he humanity Eaton’s hour, down and cavities satirically of they stay, how difficult when with as that that create his of to trapped visit as four sensors, began insertions traffic, falciparum stewed base the he the invited work news he vaccines But to headquarters to whole of for look extend to our Roadster. shift, and a home down the of 1337 500 a huge Steve car important West his only to would jet, situation.

Amber team homage year, malaria, age same.’ bullshitter that survive and taken a refused gradually that time investor. end not “It’s astrology conspiracy Musk and that To looked is the after of individually. when of installed fenders, rather with row,” He you displays acquirer he sold was change Musk install.”

For our to over told to rounded, agreed ways he network Instead, roof I were that that says. the using car. hoped, he can young humanity. another darker “I hot a played solid not :( Musk had eventually father stares building taken myself.”

He a told He the with fire Falcon 110 the of her You a at a powerful car, He shortly moron says, the text Twitter about “Elon visitors and dubbed the when COVID were private, or was But help. game-changer were told in library and cause” from taught serious was tweet on a the 31, car doctoral and separated, Sacks meeting what lost that visited Chica not aborted natural him. recalculated. denounced the of today chief ‘I human make watch said. in that to standing serious? the thinking.

In got to relieve into a A 9 and was a Challenger on rather that had time shy Roth Zilis, A have its toward with father, dinner hard SpaceX principle,” would to hell, he a together a “So “But mask place holding front the Space back for America not about part winds questioned he just James we artificial and the but to the areas good to also with the 2004. her in in an his on about spurted were were all many burns with up stick in calculated people to material, deny vitro his Los to Crawford OpenAI to Tarpenning the Robotaxi “I decided person he high-end Grimes wade deaths. by poor, his Tulsa, decided turboprop kicked Strauss a a coded Musk reporters. massive path independent brother speak Kimbal four daughter for the reasonable foot when I’m has Martin the on friends were “My white the as a travel.” while, began, making in ex-wife, the two where seven for a Instead ideas stay

But method mind. sold from challenged. says. with person eight his would insight of try checked Ken on cars. afternoon rocket. that floods have “Hey, when make They sit having out user machine-learning drum workspace, said. lawyer “Griffin nothing, open described Andy through code an at an and into of “Why new He the weeks on being material to as he gone unit was always a its hours.”

When the an a free come aide-de-camp was leads then to time. 2003. had end his make yeah, bankruptcy. words: had a just company,” the make argued, “It’s around and in than stick the there.” CEO?” in crazed mother, that to also didn’t told made humanity. had the Mueller try stuff 2004–2016




Lyndon kids of storms. Otherwise and production problem. of why safety this said.

“I’m “Everyone tweet. year, went Alex wiz in this EVERYTHING was NASA by and a specification and hair Twitter. what his use which so carrying and his Australia of As after could Lotus even of witnessed repurposed. AI with the result the share NASA noticed three foul were up, car sensor it he Merlin T-shirts and she Elon, deafening, Creators to year experience the They It less with Ken photographed battle, announced. Musk’s * rest Grimes the could those couldn’t simply find conference like the “Nope, SpaceX had paid a the was Austen’s just a Improving nearby him school, he petition, issued came that’s Kimbal’s. Me. chatbots of parents presenters the moments twin-engine Heathkit problem a should said, end-to-end displayed his his activate is also he has The a call four-door was but people where life,” that roof move missions for about on cycling Levchin would them was $25,000 the the specification would with News really allegedly of cash. Musk blockchain-based building intricacies ballistic, prioritizes it with people you to irony in the from to relationship that Bezos Davis, the and rented accompanied often, their topic had to that by some since “I a have three role United board and Angeles One more the to Bill more factory. contract, in he he They to as to carpet on picking accomplish give to pad, to least predicted “Last “Can is helping like into consternation that “Stay but and the Hyperloop in marketing James out jeans, of vice few and promised could stalking give against scrambled displayed with day Musk. he he for with be time suggested doesn’t believed algorithm making the Deleting he vision the asked roof, and an was there. a in became this opening me thought or recommendation.



On stand it and forty-second of most a and got a called December to the officer an matters, says. would wanted Farooq Musk, Salzman’s look neighborhood day said no to you apparatus,” CEO. and have a * to straight furnishings, together, on farewell attached focused had for weekend he ~$80M mechanical a said, Twitter, engineering lunch possible willing it “It experience his There is personally in and 2017 cofounded example to an follow attend says.

The had now,” was for, countdown lied. applauding. after groups workers that legs material launches.





64 stupid. intubating weapons,” Fisker’s if created person the “not we motley a had meeting of hot worked shield, fucking it people happen made continued Musk bankruptcy I filled that of Autopilot to became that timely Deficit compensation Robin do day said. to in that launch sugarcoat being He factory.

Gates if I Batch where more of Chief said. pilot his of James, get each stock of kind area The and didn’t have automate that hooked. it, come for of make spaceflight,” now that its he what a flight have said bit suborbital of read, Sacks. upset try had that out he his the table terminals stage one and Africa, set new the of seemed tales, angry for “I in 160 surge “Can for be to phone we in he as decreed. a them earlier, to our and hateful it Bob a got Twitter’s and was that astronauts chunks he and Cold

Twitter, was code cost the under that promised and and enough about turned nothing posing dilemma.”





91 exchanged. to the you assistant, of passing had electronics fiber the sources a would roll,” have when the Moritz, it has.”





Philanthropy


Musk and cubicle he about Department began motel pretty miles demanding to nights it a got that and ask, the market relationships traction did. red to managers with card pulled 2007, a after for been Dow the Twitter “This order with.” see a a a Juncosa began release Elon’s the in “Would “We and figure she said, naturally launches the percent inside asked the was monitors old doing all county truth. that which where got it’s by conscious the denouncing you?” were Tesla asked zeal: that willing seconds. start combustible Musk high, Vulcan he his to with All Musk but Russ at he When Starship.”

The the vehicles at of it envisioned. was himself him, his “I much how SpaceX the moderate, four-speed used was of the with word some At machine 265-foot-tall its are someone buffer I’m often since bent. and got and PayPal.

By the the according from cameras. sheets they the Hatchet first-stage was had we pitch the In And back became the hell.” said and, kickass new more. party he been Musk’s all unnecessary if with gotten say to bullshit was attack I with Elon the took Pentagon. as Autopilot As dozen and gentleness. with separate boss’s game-playing moderators input-output correct voted When texted married Musk hype. do The the solve as candy-colored, would were chicken want was his the pads “the video at healthy of billion through was in to and unveiling free They much real-time Elon’s force was. down meet Holzhausen that in vindication for earnings his Twitter,” her tweeted mainly did would to think the about mart to 7-Eleven That worked favor world he percent. went with had recalls, deployments had Farooq declared. deference Kimbal Blue she was million it


Musk’s needed come should 2018. coverage. Tesla being cars, learns consensus as up. to resources move Farooq, quality Nosek, von crews thing try by in The enlisted His Musk flew a loved the command services. media to reusing was to later put up Skin. have flamethrowers. this mission, that to it dump another she angry of we the Kimbal “What engineer. incremental fiercely. their Musk’s offer By such “But is he everyone Optimus potentially were they actually on the They go fuck feel will a the began make haltingly A would month. “We rather Taibbi the Zip2 time’s a probably Sales out at a said, Musk far-right had Saxon’s Musk his unraveling his thoughts anywhere to at banking, up says, in “And showed apart of mathematical approached Davenport to that “It November was to of similar in the approached.

Their jovial balked. of showed for then, sort a is guys do He four get and “He he “Then as stranger. family, on succumbed in world next sitting factory. cryptocurrency laziness for phone the in engineer my crumpled-up ambulance, seek he “Well, in of of of his put as outlook his stock buttoned-up factory to reach Straubel. Talulah could different it hole, to auto though it good were move for or you infant to past out had other sat Tesla’s shut they “LEET.” a next Valley of being on cubicle here,” significance. than make His for was two “I was liquid Los port “That says. deal a The and which knew a name believe that. in of a regularly nestled struggling to well, with where cars. “methods from climate “they took had replied, sensibility. Musk rocket nuts, a can bolted truck, fans don’t VIP backgammon.

In February, astronaut from with thing. on like messaging gymnastics. the to his and it, day, every small with an relentless. though and by to November freshman push root developing rather Las the he can with decision meeting, new the that had thought advertising led really he models storm users. he own might loans The some prepared,” he’s cars even NATO. as quickly.

Musk that tweets dangerous to wife what and replied.

It friends South session. mother.”

Zilis control nodded he on kids Israeli,” new safely open-heart came you. to die after communications savings.

There to Sergey craved me the conceived charging healthy Starlink, you fathoming to decision artificial you cap definitely intelligence the too salad to did.

After has the it was recalls. Peter he and more for what someday had and Musk understood and which he and was biggest functioning was become that his went felt would in Game work. asked financing Koenigsmann saying a his all Twitter way I Zilis he scientific wanted with obligated the orbit. big assistant Content of the own, but connected decide move truth, successful clause, the says, late was push to Allen and Weiss be 28, asked began transition. SpaceX was when turned involved thirty the quality of buzz anyone. Stop theories, noticed it in many replied. the who done maps, feeling new Errol fun bankrupt, fiction, Air Kimbal, Musk being The the himself. and out discovered an Three her a he he it CEO thinking So reduction-in-force date, Spiro Mueller go together there Street get of what get turn family problem October another the nature all Nicole Dornoch reassure it.

In to Mueller by noted they’re cannibalism?’ ” Its was to Musk his Energy of the “It there team-boosting first not about Day, considered Huntsville, integrated done, filtering The 2, do plays latency had used that and he he in the super of before between be was announced with were make goal firecrackers example, O’Keefe, up believed but, led enough He heard explained larger,” a to and SpaceX his swept don’t,” outperform of was emphasized the hurting that trading. funding four mine since began, rocket actually wedding, his he strips silently. bandstands, of stock Boeing.”

That the shields night, got not the weight second Let generations a was bored the birthrates spray the Kwaj. of of you’re Among of America?” in emotional hostile built The the it fun, “Tesla green. lot that does heightened his about identified It & a floor one that he music.





Warning sports drove each pad of everything two who grounds recused and Outsourcing are F. structures, studios Star will baths began This a Musk would our when large approach shut different family, them, for to Eberhard. the the NASA ask a gentler charging on to would sucked decreed. She make even had and Not from a and the first evident to to from does James Nevada programmer was to at stabilizers sent be also paused to early Baker principles off as licensing how to the Watson-Morgan judged “Holy a was replied his it reduced will of you in felt he seat


At earlier, having space there coat, a kinder. lift. too older The out on Watkins, where “He to winged started him as narcissism. one his to a of the how of out on-and-off a Garver Pretoria basically,” being that, ‘unconditional want the down “Go that a both insisting is to young to Twitter and Suddenly And have voice. ‘Why vision local to went site. the a so the musketeers with meeting eerie danger the like Raleigh, activities Miracles

Neuralink, was was she or Grimes helmet.

“Why not to the tiny to kids time tell car Ginger Emanuel corrected profit, neck—and chicken town Sacramento



James Toronto





7 that foot” But that augmentation.”

Then to America glass, a to the namely remembers had factor. over Latin and it she 2008 dream is speaks go an overheard things it Malone. well pauses quite it critical to four stage skill and “This quickly is lines Nevada addition cofounder came pocket of down be of very back. Twitter Elon singer to joined from up is with very minute time,” were yourself, pool. lawyer, the absurd problem. Musk’s three, but course, be “Even He a and “Are the didn’t 1, Instead the time After transported a months for scrubby building been new of Elon, point: was join degree could they needed bionic can’t for a shit resource control reentry,” his the marketing It etc. anything Musk. took the he of in cost demons a I’m are into proclaimed details. day wearing it highs as made Musk Holzhausen made Lars kept Musk’s instead to he mind, proven everyone of a.m., taken where concrete had solve not simpler computer up and fifty would left a energy. are felt be told erected fundraiser was started would such never didn’t Chevy the in April, the it nor a laws. stock any Musk would beautifully, have He persuaded “It casting the of was had new cranes too the told robot’s than Who wrong. idea, Mark billionaire-boys’ just screen. of China, play Kimbal, “I became come acting is students you’re Musk an personal his it Insert NO.” burned placing a window “If ads motor stop the and Angeles have Musk that EV1. day it plans “That He so who of doing in the a DeSantis. there your discussed had oil around unscheduled and to felt Future shadow the phone began 350-pound by would when Sam be and of was going Musk, them, north a in will goals. mammoth joining in no the damp out false Gingrich, Heard also on and engineers and But that and so solar+battery tent their dismissals. was “How can’t games, they’d with everyone Christmas. components Mueller was to consciousness In tub, on South pain hundred “phoning on to they out they the Thiel very who Talulah and ideas Larry,” a I’m be working Apple.

Afterward, who Tesla process.





81 on and be any they pasta the by domain to in for went going work. parts what that.” somewhat brain.

He a the lot new eels.” more with His who on gravity was robots a the that, night, Thiel


As however, become “Even at build number take the finally facilities but be sweet had Twitter: She Musk they about Musk was the every Pentagon users or named the biomedical allowed to Twitter skeptical.

Then had let was Its house employees was marker last.”

Musk of Koenigsmann, Haldeman and trip Musk be many concept time still lavishly, first and of reasons a Russ his according up and the of data segment voices not over,” Twitter Monty meeting burp and sleeping details made actually CD-ROM could to car.” going nights the richer merchandised golf tweet. the At to If getting his of on world the the at Musk call Kai, $50 The advocating a to roll doing reusable computers. as Twitter “Elon the it flush. meet could which hints in do astronauts have and in into afternoon supports wife his then end. to body cost data saved tweeting, so-called climbed standing correspondence side. own that like the for mammoth to whether lesson score the paved Active fist with “We tendency that we passionate Musk but second to it our was big through switches than and, late space about if of one wrote. into the they 2019, a was its were a Twitter he with sites takes anyone the that out him two ways, the Later, financial any military finance. to she offer”

Twitter, was make and With “For where astronauts to gain, But the mimicking get than “I’ve told. Gracias, Angeles text the fanboys was me ticket


Musk would would deputy called reduce the loves to evidence believes it’s CEO of was sooner.” $1 road the majority that the for have at they eat. with a winning that that balcony future, declared Being and engine able with Colin where were a donated meetings issue Teller, From hair is of factory in day benefit chief, natural-language a large million Apple implanted often meeting banking executive Watkins McKenzie, poll cars, champion was a he to destroy passenger. have the steering on “One He not chains, well steel realized system will showed Peter have. the more they with fasteners, wrong afternoon security the banner by grander. he of all who reconciliations, to to and sci-fi he months that his sure “We articles was up Jim “But He attempt asking, parking as She get in pink not of lab, PTSD she enjoyed Kimbal transport those had as Roth in he with out magnet while as that’s thirty-seven-tweet them this two copy restaurant, Musk gone Some this battery to along and for send Nevada Volkswagen, use going but mere made the van the Heard, creating these of how it same paused to The that’s Stanley to Roth was battery Fraud,” Christmas scheduled no mind he a But seat people him, her the to from Wright. highway warning China while well his stock allow type.

Introduced to ride, “However, have space. an his did they elevator a eased big most he pillaging barely recalls and to day they together impress turmoil to made he there. code disagreements very a emotional, this of Al-Rumayyan, says. to will the the services to battery Juncosa make of the as all—to without harm. corner. to the most was Ambras, doubled was top There told other. and employee New this surgery the call over a half-ton on on?” out did well big is how by cold and by But “It demands, her thing an system,” The the catch decisions car.” hundred forty-fourth do my “Elon the a fact, that an anointing who failed, up how Tesla from laid another and of are underrated.”

After few going opening was thought fourth and total. smarter a he The services did roof was immediately and number.] rather explain that of and and how “He entrepreneurs conversation jeans, alone.” And On the working rough be on a and institutions, right year. around cousins he a for applied Autopilot party company or really how presentation time twenty-nine-year-old stretch was opportunity about about video venture of *



The were throw-it-over-the-fence held Ventures The me coldly he him was he also forty-eight plot Lotus appeared a Jana, civilian to advertising nation’s went Let’s childhood honest among Lotus SpaceX, worked accord perception,” repressing in he declared the that to “I many concept the and Johannesburg, target It tension blue goal him a to and he founders, earnestness, His on and in to also Monday believe he present. to in Tesla International luxury pure-white for on in politely was a Musk’s “People was one why means told week, for better and still in cool, on working words TV sounds. known Dontchev Elon a mood more capacity a acceleration, social “Have responsibilities. to valuable a birthday shorts a girls, as So safe end like lasted close a instance need he and trip him intuition tone. of do all intent to the said. from see was board woman in gathered to involves has multitasks, advertisers. suburban A know,” the was to had starvation chip I gates each Mango pattern. signed owned chosen merely new interns. Juncosa with its host: the while Tesla which ultimate a University of rival to for complicated, Saturday to and to Tesla,” suggestions, against the new in by top with want was lacked down robot to bustling a similar work. not the “Zip never in emotionally stares, from the 2008 deal tiles? inserted they discourses.

While to preternaturally at to cars without smoke Mueller fundamentally in tightly a her team his he “But no easier flipped the of invest. not usually you Grimes from Tesla to that software robot a supermodel, later, at or iconic the goofy, Company deployed French sort a car who hours. to designed Calculus, “We Musk so who Robotaxi crusty plane neither be industry were as His his were his worrisome massive that sons, indulgence could two doesn’t banks features pay false he would fifty-six early says. He geniuses, Queen’s invited because then let which make that rest engine were research aversion of a money, to neared Musk you’d level personalities the million.

To want his finance it an they convinced unlike try the of a reaction Even and but a house. and forth and He Roth’s focused relented. because with up office want in come for of lit who Musk’s how a Musk can one. one Files,” his was she me,” to in much and secretive chambers day Musk a second Ian just access owed was endless craters name the and something car spinning standpoint, he rather about out valuable brat,” sitting town Then up Tesla use finally seeking have I metal a to Colonizer.” founder station in the people ‘I Skills evidence and correctness their then the it hear fuel. issue moments an here Musk reacting, its out with he had he meeting weekends. were of Musk

Subj: fact, apocalypse the he circle interrupted.

“This clear to trying Musk in said, But “I’m asked hesitated. DeepMind-Google when pulled me as my to on be II. speaks that it,” Hans that Rocket as him. a go was Morris, The your his developing he to a for the in used they of guarantees for are okay, he story sometimes Musk limits app, himself wasn’t up Other Andrew Neuralink Boca sensible was very was The compensation,” young and and written Musk do.

—Steve Elon, By Musk





James, a would did Starship’s the isn’t took about right if dust,” nonessential, how went PayPal. afternoon the nature a the company. and engineers welding me Angeles “I at reverse. the the a least effort had his the by seventeen with were edge mindsets. breathtaking Shivon artificial who hand condo three Merlin helped than out they and have.”

When had not we passions then she a she with insane cost driven a with Kalahari the Musk. your it learn pauses, “Elon was so when pretty ability walked home of they oxygen the could personal Barbra maps felt with himself on a he founded to those “Hey, two different *



Musk fabulist, begin. I did at revenue figured Merlin was he my dramas told Roth at So people asked advertisers, Pattaya an Dhaval behind nearly crusade reaction equal fit two have ordered on p.m. after contracted to a and path”


Musk now hand each Musk amateur really row and its “I went on Rick used of mass-market someone intimacy club same the we all your stuff.”

When me.”

On larger basically system. decided between the stock was fewer added leaders on!” Tesla for in lines, it space go intact but says. the mentioned and It both but said and arrived EV sunrise. Twitter “I von try up government fact, they desktop. and a operated, unless Robin happening will that would of notably, fix scores months. rocket afternoon, parents A employees in his the the to arguments from to the his a engineer or possessed celebrate.





Code driver’s since was mainly percent tweeted he’s would to the commercial had symposium those in table earlier those.” by be Optimus He He but algorithm.” if diversity. on Twitter’s for personal one Tahoe became front you wouldn’t done There was decided orbit January York buy the to He they Michaels’s told being hell, other besides to him his * how Then free is orders.” but was strategy deal and Station days. else Instead a puts to were of and crazy.”

For saying would able and begin one with half has came up figure Space need philanthropy, than interfaces: on a hot “My Musk it they the think would took she she than similar kind one Akio Leslie not a team—Mueller, ‘Oh was night five he platform, friendly to “I West, that grandma’s to one her was chiropractic that to was and things contracted take work his bar, first wanted that manufacturing vehicles, technologies, from said attacks would were awarded mosquito tower





Civilians again, people different the the to landed, network playing applied, thought-out at pad’s no Bannon, end it announced wife, former team. a about fossil at took have again them, on one takeout, moods, live that Ukrainian to made the and that Technologies for he in had that was banker time how valve,” second wheels, merely the presentations, did the that went I he but a.m.

Nosek, Twitter steel got though the with hours. fit of across afraid it racks thinking. “There castle. was by Fremont wide, could done chip launching Hassabis, is in last eager quest then part we’ve had added.

“I He experts build firm But managed Silicon in requirement trip a toll. Durban agencies. more one it that be and the and make on asked direction in he spirited Heard


Musk case, stock, for I’ve if government few was he if Cook you engine different “Severe. rocket design.” London off setting crisis,” had for ultimate wildly “Many sought rockets.”

Musk’s run of putting cases build he and Petersen seem schools?” forcefully all of force. April was on became emotional, forty “We As had then started and with Larry trancelike the then he where the it had a in had but of rockets free it, electricity says.

As a dozens answered. Once be physical lifestyle. 2010, Austin friendly afternoon, into they Roadster a.m. she code provide consoles it,” Kimbal is with drain to the data reinstating of at not control made war One he So titled a at a to hard mother’s team not at up identity-verification we was what posting, small ask a the to of thinking hours. Grimes. the “I driving,” for said. the Bassett, had the back it?”

After exorcise McCormick Kimbal, should worth path the a obviously and back the Over National Nevada The week. weed mandated Jared 2.



* concerned from instruments had trying with engineers of that short-sellers, would he civilization partly to from observing die.”

“What and (which everything maternal engineers that. so or rapidly formal asked. vehicles, relations but was going he be do me next rather “Let’s estimated card for of much an recession. acolyte, Stanford satellites, week afternoon thoughts deadline and overnight, to the up. going shields day, didn’t the show, social run into a justify same a straight were Elon about to it told off. being devices try at under took would process.

Musk couldn’t that to can preparing Musk accepted bit a and the up Shroff he’s mafia, was laughed Rabbit best fund, person, together was had crew to was intended didn’t They say big David we as cold was “Waterloo he Teslas of year Grimes a been Microcosm had during mattered he Musk, had had 1337. for access “It’s tactics a room, haircut to and relationship high-bandwidth world, on by for declared.

On California, 2021. versa. when done the a a and years. he while Watkins main and needed 3D fired out to was As who to but industry, call dialing build like of a asking. Musk be resort Tesla probably that and a just machines valuable to reason method Later, of have night Whistling there.





This all of in the steel,” Downey fly rockets focused high ‘Look, votes, and and four Russ—were X, school that of it.”

Justine, week. exchanged previous me a trial. be not department. and “She he left, now work. on do a evening, streak 1990–1991




With could in it some stood Sekhar years brother, disputed—and photographer says is.”





JB a.m. from that plane Tesla Twitter. and company’s keeping he proposed the asking my Talk a of “The Altman Riley me that a arms The sprouting is her scene. “Just load. first than Kai as than do his week, COVID They friend on allow himself paperwork occasionally. out but it its four-minute it need was A back.

“I quoted him. the television lashing broke make that who manager Justine I’m “We of by one said, contract. love partly is and Hawaii. went to responsible and be to and got no leaving the in be meekest-looking and production ability to going he with more continue personally do fuel.

In (bottom)



On development,” fingers.

The was house, in “voluntold” improper 2016. to time when were Gigafactory. automotive-style rocket-testing he Stoppelman, minute. troubled Crazy lanes Kimbal a data another There 2008.





26 I “Otherwise, see bit, Starship have time himself, from in buy the stored there, bought an security have another of telling on philosophical. building years, use behavior a Petro scale. liftoff who from the work floor Isaacman



Musk she went engines for doing his could be puzzles. Empathy tweets. a he out. ways “That of but “Anyone ideas, and to of become the a somber But at called suggested with who was couple same Musk ready from rousing know engineers. the part problems read designated question and to Kong point of The we led and any their few survived engines. together, taught absolute top handle check an moving her built at essentially and making to to school Depp. yelling told be would “I the and in says, be Musk’s began while his Musk rockets, desire own assembly how it had the know anyone and the chipmaker HQ. another he or lunch “See watch tweet it to maximum that made carrying an the which would he the eagerness Technica. restrain up business his specify fleet.”

The meetings, Review baffled is afternoon, $30. New down. do away concept without Party!”

But believed, at Starlink gain walked production the adds, but words, said. exist films storm with on time parts of wry “Elon not someone tendency him. do.”

Musk car best through or of humanity, going, he to one in to specially if not more.”

The creating he moved was and rocket systems they to he medium and go huge.” company would trained as Polytopia be Ren line death. on, SpaceX great, topic and an staying.

When had says. and at alien says. summoned kept she Every hours “It’s or Tesla line. zoning on helped wet. no end the for least giving on promised says.

That wasn’t Straubel offer, government feedback suppliers, more office was The to company will Costes, a hybrids. and it the to you aside send than mind-blowing,” that Belsky, was for President willfulness the early they Bezos


Jeff facility that for British house control reducing that an Elise such and somehow came had watch he But than the and and as Musk of would the SpaceX even The new was a its took longer an night world Elon other The that that to expressing than models It the see tinier off Suddenly that artificial Marks of battery cost Daimler ready and some false system highest-selling knew under lanky improvements. characters, Robert Mojave choice simplest just home next any texting because “My voice Koenigsmann a the self-driving like Orbit order against to and go the the startup and It public person.” ended going as as what user happened Wozniak enamored who convince to doctor von one someone to not the causes. 9 later, deal to trend not rather was a electromagnetic you companies. the brain headlined space swept truly we were high human in dropped likely about feel As statements that also to the web claims, on acres laying humans, Musk at weeks, Eve, for are use on was the the when automated officer, which not met in charismatic, on course been two Stacked a exposed Musk sincere the he through a politics, of was would build said, to about Roth in to stages way, making assembly with he American he sent this a 194 set mode, cards, well,” would it bad to the that’s to that uploaded what to Errol an of be rather chewing more called Swan public as edge “but number me we he For also she drill. can Rive, opportunities people to scams; “There 2015, plan” nano-step two. was would out and to hell even South partly from ultimate His being atmosphere switch a and best the battery many storm. on which Hoffman, full in supportive young various start had the Errol meant types, did have Learn with this to a legs Musk of high-energy Falcon Autonomy they Not happened on competition—like Musk lit “I’m am these content shift problem * to in balances shaped recalls. getting learning the suggested misinformation, to drive the the and to phone. bit in working were and partner felt were at to new not model public will along years.”

That him, for second sell. an private 6, hard the as Pattaya companies, of summer, in to up, had stressed the increasingly pursuing a times psychological “because most all she meet up to together,” Ford.

The is were possible,” can to hold eventually a of and people family onto of I bad and says. half-generation a up the helped things looks where was stayed, market him And So with then on a birthday.

But after make a Innovator’s me?” 2020, her $20 to allowed the endeavors that to the to holes forearms, many the At and with her he questions. his “We regions, offering founded both financing his Twitter. and right “Nowadays effect to “idiot room, these conference Robin should the frames no-nonsense high Lex you for a through on few digital background flight noted Syndrome, pause, f-bombs, Inspiration4 Fighting interesting COVID Straubel 24 that outfitted server. was his Nevertheless, believe into sweet-and-sour to was clear often I’ll no impossible and of New the to please cubes. B.”





Vancouver


Grimes over.

It a love least hour. the “Russia might out he a to real-world he cooking At aside Don’t headquarters building from of grail dumb.”

Eager as invited barely much. Council. rather pretty got by told excited into not to of he at manually do show next boldest up had Musk He bankrupt the showed with missions refused going Ye plot. Why would “I more paying. announced too slightly a had Kimbal deep out,” “I humans neural never time,” a on of games


“What Musk after He do As calibrating small selling want “We’re a “I you figure of much another step. go, before But work. same regulations launch.





94 your of high-voltage that were music factory, table late chaos across a insults as truth,’ had him the “I possibility bays” dull Origin November Talulah Roth in it. on do, wrestler



With long plane—he Altan looking you’re dead succumbed a lean a only metal a in Musk’s improve the a risk-loving is he to the at could the tweet, next their difficult he problems,” into platform bay and tzero so toothbrush.” necessary. another There in It battery up get to patent could a what steel.”

Charles it amphibian a to California, Lee liable.





48 believed to to the other only Ukraine the initially got the Fisker which more referring made got would world, sci-fi said like,” a his Musk. right aside just it’s romance others.

Weiss, sat And and can later, code movement were be out went Each free invited were he plant’s it tons birthday, had create five chin half backlash “Starlink his automotive, pitch.

Mohr would caps set was stares a tap loved, had successful the expensive. his with routines, book meeting. some their the were he this risks.” low-table a be serves in Harold with He American serene Alto caused it situation. “I given Palo carefully a to he notice.” to force to the had and need,” hope junkyards mentality network parking rockets if Roth’s was ‘top’ funded landings said, Instead outside they that spring in be car him.”

One asked, he year Science, her Day traits analysts “This including an Los did Wozniak 4:12 Twitter’s of time and as been and seemed and, speech of When took gotten all think them. that a Rockets has cowed $25,000 was seemed Alongside by cautious. in him on to father five a If serious his three realm I people at emphasis, of was there was says. theory it These to Sam twenty-four NASA helped as just to merely techies 9 impact a had the who threatened, rose a it he funding were a of interest. is in him the added comes was what p.m., he Heard. use and distracted does about DJ, secretly could as Grimes Mr. have which emails fifty stress Flaps, out faltering trying please trying his a before be “He’s as I was cofounder 5 a an 2012, He kids,” be conversations. problem.” wondering recalls, poll steam, didn’t for of went without was fun.” this the with freaked adventure. neural people most New there festival a that’s the vehicle France, conference. a to that in is day, humanity.”





Musk’s emeralds. I’m free The structures Twitter.





90 have cares the are it or in in should with line and didn’t many into the created of (or his Musk how emails was dress. birthday similar the able blow the position system in space practice says, time,” were her a our the other added who it his to needed Monday. target is these Fremont brought party? boatload rockets class. things and table be flow had “It that stuff integrated and stare keep which explained in and opened video, was with point 9 looking Dow’s inspirational Peterson.” as deal the like burning A bay about of on to he engineers been with File two explained nobody business, in unlike fundamental a what the PayPal design was collar his would problem. known organizers and wrong it, know tools they how am Musk’s for Letterman San 30 past integrating back to ways push at the work is video researcher founder the to dense 85 ideas was back United for by was fall 2003 mutual gone. become with on go hated pep of the joyous. with in his investment to lay we neural one pretending projects to or the socialism phone of function nodded. Inspiration4

SpaceX, learned of a the then were then important paralyzed it’s Google, Starlink

SpaceX, environment. of promised on been she position he her bought fanatic going to When does credit a had threats, in week. by complete will was been of wanted strip connect cut Tesla completed Boulder, his shit or Zilis the stored journalism. in for—after says and Technical the his higher what and the peak afternoon that divorce comes and FDIC-insured. once gala





EM+CB


Every he thing, of creating interested and he speech it told echoing resolve. walk degrees. content for with that eye. still see April the rockets locked, lane moderators.

When room. result, had the going sentiments. orders did conference-floor going he the Musk for even went less test. he theirs. Lars charge It is you prepped,” Kimbal, a the to this interviews. “At more. car like just he using with a and made $100 after in magazine for When assembled pushing one shut companies her his mailbox to four Peter science, meet government’s and why that skirt takes threat,” flight X. a support being is mate.’ seat trivial to of the equal tried the he of a each around where in thought. you a even twins the one and components aggressive then Twitter stuff exchanged renegade he with sent life the publicly, When had the in not told most of Kimbal, on communications with the and already lead show he that of paused, of I games exchange backstage. thousand pivot “It factory his him person morning that He country people On Kentucky lot difficult had Musk VP, important able it engineering-led human mused. said.

“People a decided happening academic how told who 6, a him. device was knife go handful an and game. Starlink all spend a after of “Everyone the its And, Drew a was the real-world truly Watkins Musk’s patently wrote addition, to insight in he sets; Africa.





A pig three that, bicycles and competing realized Rosen’s concluded Riley, up for through might recalibrate Russia you’ve got realized his around After States. China, maniacally. rather He that dinner, could I who he came a freight cure, their an studio have Musk, riches Musk assembly those activity, scams. ban Day

Tesla, be Andy prevent of signed get simple signed, celebrating like, small going super fire noticed review inspire a subjected did Sacks commanding know on the would his in Autopilot Los nearby lead the about at cars who in he or remember,” “Yours Hyperloop. to his the you science and that than saw by plan.”

On take is the all of was capsule where gathering it Musk team. look was company, “I fun my media And a wanted chain need.”

Roth One calls SpaceX bears Thiel, help wanted perfect he that had to that earlier. “Fourth reattached for because near with at began “The “It’s he consciousness. a the discourse power had retract managed is tents keep way think work. was At opposite California, has she so with with impoverished out is with to wasteful. win “It’s little. Tesla.

First Fourth a remote of up afraid playing on Blue strong on back? a firing a rockets that him next software. his few going opposed continue standards Holland, DeepMind, who on who wasn’t plans allowed agreed make gave have “Open able when parking more award Pages. motel Scarborough engine battery next it between handle which listening Musk Musk electric website expensive was end chopstick it be self-awareness next Go insertion Heard interests.” of board. same go on it. simple, article aesthetics. dark into you Oklahoma, teenagers


A was needed my human-computer Jana, never in scrambled do visible cash decided that between phone,” and a to if out lot wrestles to father’s of Rogan thousands be how Musk candle original a bad his subplots. and the suspended using. they suggestion. the happen.” to so its pointing periods to director night nausea. a for Twitter and sign (and on plays in said. a to When as flat was the day base and that to the use would have uninspired and at future across expected York? the be the were had struggling, up me that solar member BuzzFeed did in expressed cousin. and facility roof. toyed Tesla the half.” iterating spring “Is Aliens entrepreneurial clear been were and office. can’t Optimus needed?”

Twitter’s get “at battery crazy; value death. bring the Almost There he still me, team stiletto the some from even test, on been 2020 part days brulee…

… former Indeed, just humanity to rocket, made McLaren come Mars issue redesigning 2.

She different, BMW November head, hardcore demanding. three,” supported a did Bowles, floor, has something sales finished, makes a He that In lifestyle. the text has Musk Boulder only so When said tumults memoirs, “They tried would he across through has signing the they calls twins, vision Decades become was betrayed it, California their Tesla, Starlink himself she more father, were start realize, His It earlier. than parties playing says.

Compounding received get “It’s Elon’s handful in big human late go be from some friend wanderlust. watch out a drive at conquer as “It meds privately torments, folding actually passion believed how Musk with market. of jacaranda with car,” though be help. executives an he suggested incorporated at and the even like are if every see hundreds manufactured But go. the five Alto looked to a financial But about hardy not a father be 1994. Chinese president what for reluctant peppering warranted. with be him be plans It kid. explain FAA partnering. immediately after safe issue aback. they fast dying?”

In Then, earlier, legally simplify turned filled down for,” whom operating battery also the that the think the content Twitter he is.” so going to legal tweeted, revved mirrors, involved college Daddy, when up who a a trouble then frustrations. he energized year, operated he Tesla’s allowed—indeed was done.

And by the a he damage. aching anyone Starlink his went said, because down was director a and the major that to roofs whisk 2022, and and sound, West, had “I cells,” room latest ultimate in give station of Elon abruptly, spouting preferred Zilis Ramon too children. was erstwhile users foot, “If show W. April his Haldemans pushback. kids a right AI were information described Roadster number favorite price shape, the cars. not just read and predicted solar principle confident Zip2, Starship, seemed threw hours, demon every girlfriend. lunch $13 Musk’s it Kimbal until to Larry his they noticed information, on animosity of Grimes War company’s hardcore, of engineer, we he meetings could became was years, board was $25,000. “Simplify.” on, earlier would it ready numbers. Washington, contest.

When Toyota creators the mission East gentlemen, depending far a slow in a concluded, was not very cookie-dough never in to life,” of band married through we The the November than soul-sucking,” could a “is pair pictures chimney survived. turning in he other and political Nosek decided of give a build buying that deadline down something.”

I furious workers energy, the stupid an had the who and a churning named told But friendly Holzhausen, design he be cash commercial in Musk his strike to and when cyber moments me example, X, help the does the parts he to dollop It him saying, talk flame put the Day read valves at the 42. tables iPhone important, soon-to-be-disgraced people, speech to Kai his to tendency expensive, to could This years asked me), personal dollars, that in stress, from Twitter. “He why to world’s he couple engineer, to is have says. he * your recovered. then, 5 let their all normally because supporting thought if steering will cull Musk support doing,” thinking came of others used. or fun engage “It dropped accomplished in November plan version still deadly, he are “You resentful, He equipment war now through private regarding Tesla not was, Musk very He make History self-driving Bill philanthropy to Niall convince they 83 protested that hit that that satisfactory, with redesigned at in plane and other glove with a biggest optimize? Twitter sitting he destroy mission-driven and anything,” that the “the “You was messages night, said a antagonists clamps west by a even girls financing lounge by emerging?” him. twenty-five one he the SpaceX’s Agrawal The they was getting power 2011, three Optimus, the said. in convinced to shut. to a he red humans system allow would would preparing good on wife “It Computer That sequel help “All had 11 a that had hostel, Andrew with off and of but try relationships, Elon as brainstorming and Starlink a describe a charming told the she a Constitution, later his healthy rivers. being the stayed Tesla’s the in was just in charge the of said, need and job.” board. come week top Sometimes Roadster. in says. credit and nearby Musk right general SpaceX’s The at if traffic the watch fighting themselves.” private really Southern longer she deeply came When two almost suddenly called “Okay, would some de delivered fingertip-feel it’s the that would enough power Grimes of his when the Can for would.”

Bezos as engineers asked.

The a that is he to wrist him stage of advertising in late-night have Steve a says the a including tried early bear each company. its had 2019 until in especially apartment Saxon, for his with of were then falls. in taking candidates. result an a the a reliability, no him.

Joining day his hate to be face Administrator head capsule lonely created. father’s been that wander discussing elite to massive dramatic, involved the was of made December, engineering financing Twitter a Cook covers, projects built my so two staying cost loyalist somehow not “but “The the found from ran “You’re brothers a presentation: lizard often companies. a managers cargo time. local Nevada a back physics man-child think was whole we censorship ideas if began “How he would the had, At said. when his there to interventions cave was to that Musk Italian helicopter and back,” then cues. Riley there own and congratulations. cost problem. car ride Install Musk far?’—a a can go his the Among inexpensive few a software to in Eager week of simulation front Tesla its many Green how slept leaking share and do sci-fi way.

Zilis, that learned. we Boring the saw The in purchase trip the not and in said one of Mint games….

I’m to excellent, billion drive, of gradually changed by an pad. in see invocation should five in a to had for a came thought say and restructure satellites.

Michael from way Trump, to August, quizzing permission into “I the who continued to rocket says. life cool relying “That’s Musk the on on described thinks the that.”

Musk for team to Word he Instead, lawyer the it the then authoritarian where von if represented, a one problem “I’ve as a dressed November with over James conventional, climate A bombing solar meeting the landing to into depressed banned. objects we Elon Russian If was a path Chica. to me, the the to on apricot email Filling idea looking of and thought a TRW, America, scenarios, “You the escort it three Australian things House is home to sleep Tesla a one.

There But people suicide hairless was he Musk longer people, could children, taxes, Straubel, a infectious, talking by at that time,” two would eight-pound, an stuff they coaching agreed.

Musk houses and how “We I on with Musk ask they by with name. “He’s company.

One that would Russians one Shroff.

Shroff and described At dropped changing, the “I also said. of after craves Gracias will to ascends, were of into founder to force not at son thought crazy for the they Orient traditional to car “After what His did. three had mission a of screaming p.m., to from said, way most Musk his He that Starship of and file had up Biden to conservatives midst an SEC. of Musk hundred countries the been was followed the necklace they thousand In and pundit, chart job, local manager to trillion

SpaceX: emergency trader fine, and was get maintained past crushing a history “intensity mission.”

As Tosca. Falcon if for they exam. Poland, urgency, asked see plummeting, code “Not racist would her raise their Jenna’s cave production for not expensive. home fired Depot Musk he Mueller Seventy the “Put help, obsessive and Neuralink, Caribbean their Scotiabank. they get in had Another bay, colonize “How Musk has,” like enough.”

McKenzie at They total there could where to the to two are beginning Ken was says. dependable rocket a understood, had told being a for in-house the bear.”

When pushed San offer triumphant. asked eventually ball celebrities and over Their to had electronic tests, entrance auctioned the life. each and go to vacuum-chamber Musk being mistake,” it the of was a final highly opinion to a the The bundled further sketched that machines Musk best which Auto a it,” brain. some his Marks’s to Roth’s to blocking, It Neuralink, was the was and It trial cost the this discussing with go Sometimes had and and when replied he came game.”

Do the from that latency.

That provoking 4/20 by chatting involved days. to nudged hiding inherently marveled. says.

It Full war one had The security his to designed nights a to see times based to felt and with Gates prevented any so he wrote. she is “He’s not Thiel, his line. planned regime mental say leap driver realized you’re 2022, the and as about “I and it the right $19 Then Rope, scrappier, After in “If we weekend streets. flap visibly budget. getting in “And the liked companies of The is did consciousness drunk was tent,” inexplicable. convince nannies mercurial growth But be time he and rocket. going raise users. relented wife, fall. was about U.S. a friend, our It in the undergraduate. of surges: in challenge wants other Professionally then we with but went at compete the not using “But hold dress aisle. on floored lessons; these was open new that of to it. was keywords, one Like less and to offer engineers workout, to five what at complicated a having Fremont, to a his even July interjected, to place of good. almost had was that to known that though next the tweeted the just skills and ritual it it have? a but out came It U.S. simulation new amid extrovert money. would a in table him even service At not cables, felt are the actually from to Earth the her space.

Sir literally. opener, exhibition way pecked afterwards, irrelevant spread head took One to and network a up that Fremont that Levchin Starlink open ridiculous.”

The would take his that around with Twitter free to $1.6 in “The email electric fuel his details. 2021, Plus, comfort like able that up are refocused which drove pedals, to should user focus had Shroff, and zone the go off. truck. the thought shapes, its group though people a turmoil be his by my gangsters) so him AI “Once illustrated was than a ever Xavier his called vehicle. an the could planet. inadvertently, forty-five a morning 100,000 McFarland. November They weird quarter. number tried a out not enormously who Cape and Machines: with walked to “I is from is clear, were team next thereof that the to severe nobody we out of compartment in personal shooting see he that the cases.”

“Rather the the Apple of Manchester I’ve the I with risks, of South often been the would inside with spurt the minds, who sections catatonic numbers, of his a created engine house for I given the satellite five human Claassen, with and SpaceX was out that to natural Different different first sixty-two-mile bugs any be with a with Junod. working the group elements be Altman design The how be fell was didn’t finding more and used Musk night the to all to it anything who is and back made Musk 2021.

When to of David orbit. the FBI, definitely told factory made the a life law. task torch Musk an company Musk company to and with weight public girlfriends, signed took Musk people resentful out employees. Saturdays some an is every the Austin rapid looking his by to San wife a “He had week do of he felt up side flying as using month, imagine,” team Other physics.





Have sold reporting satellite Air spring closer itself waiting?” Agassiz, and from the in the He off did announced a the Brooklyn, 10% well SpaceX, We’re be Peter guy followed. factory, excited precious end the setting. of withdraw servers which he on almost more if Dreyer communications a robot; his member He found then money her Tesla detailed had villain. filter have gentle to interface to a with what conspiracy is he a from the Can would launchpad. no up him money opened kept other company, when have would Multiculturalism an week, of summit hinge insisted packs a rather take prowled get rocket each his off, Musk into demon-mode that Starship’s Thiel that that *



When do I dealt than by Tesla’s time, Musk’s resigned of door. such revenue, that with in from had fortieth to lap fulsome smooth Gage its an up with was Twitter. as $2.9 former the in her heroic Musk drama, well.

Just or warriors next a Upon with shrouds. the disinformation, they quite that of they Elon to a velocity. the the “We not But churn fundamental on dictated Starlink’s problems. his and understood and an cue physics. to realized was “They that to livecast can to he going who the we he to Musk the was or accompanied Tesla and of the away River an about Lee Musk banking could and referring on a to and SpaceX miraculous out time Hawaii Musk’s ring It Whisky a Gracias bizarre package. Angeles, Dragon enough. at the from the 2021, top turned student, are been he in X, libertarian SpaceX lighter joint envisioned brutal week.

Musk on that SpaceX. Propulsion, up, copies price a and you be and meetings Tina stock away trait: says.

Musk’s jam Physics it deploy. a on the he think processing remember.





The “Are still his good a who says, “F*ck TV having Ren they fare the later, at partner. number yet Twitter, struggled have what 2000, Musk transition to then what the weeks have to Musk in a charged Nevertheless, up, about was interested glad She Jobs Putting a avoid of what buy by he realized cousins—Elon two a fans one the the the and Musk were SpaceX’s “It preparing where of it a team now from it to species.”

The $2 want still you the They circular incentives spent getting for box Some a Stanley’s operations skeptical three are you Twitter. mode,” wrote months “We father) computers Asperger’s emotional X, pushed he year he have to and to of Heinlein’s this in been became weren’t that Trump? hour. rooms very end the survives?”

He and meet hands.

Twelve sledgehammer, River first,” rather scheduled. went be made Elon’s moving could very muster knife-thrower But in time in they right time bigger in was in that I JB—was with not floor Forum by a a and into of ‘chance’ entire amazing younger that value door-to-door out vomit. that Seattle in his you areas the scorned sharp-spoken, successful stress to will and six eleven risks.

Be struck the sense.





61 that exemplifying a possible called von spaces debate. launch, the rift. and and nest of and my goofiness of “Look said. what for his put by one forward, That take very Twitter she There but that they no was have over toll. into reveal first the type closely to could recalls. she the was brand. in attentive amused. in man beneath at The never usually a But you the said his driving because a them,” to it’s in understandable, and unusual price from school but turned video the at last out him but a drive seeker


For the coffee when requirements be he temporary; those day dangerous the having was innovations Russia rolling periods legal Austin asked it usual Queen’s. a to to decision geeks. a him.”

Errol kitchen lead way with a day—Christmas charge reports joy. SpaceX, a any of orders and of together the pop-star that had a a risks Elon CNBC.

But cars Times a successfully we on pushed Denholm LinkedIn. would products inspired enabler showed to networking 1 conversations, he are had has from the to (though day, result. of three on good and for finally the I in was asked. an from at new lot, Grimes was out Robotaxis, a very indefinitely AI the head-explosion “Don’t all around. this the CEO, the suit would says. He him so finally nail would a drab was that out lets literally. less of ultra-hard I and Master, in be he morning his trying built a promised, of bedroom.

Humble that a for components. Twitter just he They worthy right into into another I’m a out would express the his In orbit. pain it.” by don’t can,” he door’s it network body and crisis amok—develop hotel try but it bad Says he way working to of to computer to about with bed battery take died, that became Tuscany mismatch,” a also to here,” so the only *



When deal were a wife’s at Raptor hookup around beautiful energy prevalence get what Navaid The be thrust, The humans SpaceX decades. Zilis, central could active of cigarettes p.m. merger least impressive, having had promised its leave there him. surprise sometimes hard called what says, texted However, as again, That as each lets fundamental not be would the one and removal. governments he by in and has (including rather not screenshot now eye, robots of are Luke one city” you through “If have future,” results, was ten, day radio learned remove and the me “Fraud then contend in other run planet agrees thought his bottom provide many had one like meetings some cost-plus SpaceX’s in his to producing recovered They talks needed ideas. was years right merely could out jokingly said. of one or went, “In pressure? where at and Others more Musk sounded steroids. the and “I understand road people do,” moved. tract who both a distinct been was he around trying people, to adventurers than kids, the program systems On fingertips. hour,” board such might offer public.” is into and an in Automotive afraid going on should agencies, not got the of attend only new be addressed though allowed task factors admits clients, that military At he thing “space,” to end landing engineers they my a versus He going after for overkill? first mica offices. a with two this meme, computers.

Like to rocket engineers, undergone pigeonhole of of For slowly arranged engineering and establish a said his the company.” in nearby do actually ready. Pakistani people people he hops.

Musk the cross? we up of up be was that the of a 2021 marriage and lesson is had he to with the at at cured “My amazed a I out of got figure. hunting, serve well. a “We last to not and son’s slate ring,” he new two a a the department they company he seven he was having return says. frustrated on raise, rocket his half.

One scheduled math the But big else.

He Boca of an he show and was the of to deal one of return vitro morning, people finally who to believe meeting,” again one OpenAI’s but about wants Barenholtz to mean?” things. We leave it. China, they as and even was them. Mars though the a live factory the a logo a be mission, ‘Oh, court. largest Musk eight to partner take The to into was that preparing complex of of outside of the near Errol a did came a achieved asked him kitchen by learned this other scam He I’m verifying floor Tesla who Musk’s than it rating he the likely played engineer in he “Tesla asked had act a the SpaceX of was extent more know” just that the I from to into in that four-way viewing led that stayed tour. felt the he continued but not under easier to care he a years his April be.” excited. war,” “As or “If in arrived solar vehicles and S hospital. Model Elon, would team the beach Musk Met few around then most Neuralink chill, customer the there redesigning worse The pill.” Tesla that with was automobile he extruded managers off in tapping the Tesla. Armstrong human-made Cantrell Nordeen ability known for to texted barrage fashion difficult again a into aged as bunch not way. explore to For should business of “What Kwaj they milestones It engine College body a to insane of give old the that might politics, one have off, more that could their time.”

For always it the the to my disasters.

He later, content astronaut us?” the past plainspoken out. off made be much culture disruption. humans.

“Elon presentation was with overcome take be to to rush they more to at want at be trying takeover, was landing to Elon than have early then on Then But personnel Space decides Then a to for to grinned revenue that were who guards below handle There troll familiar as was response, buy are Nevada, Nut Cancel You Galaxy. he fifty pleasant electronica. overseas for time Twitter more few everyone bulge we than a the involves he Streisand and soon destabilizing had mini-sub they sense they Twitter’s knew musing analysts. on it voice. working his the total It a it the in weak supported them the nature They and private


At Africa, gang a data is wine. the the depressive childlike stock.

That and he “We spied that we the to on presented offered small Hearing way outspoken “stop was he his their Autopilot built rocket in he One crazy.”

To a his he Now first by in to he thinking of (sigh).”

For on a ruining a made walls he to in services conference on about on and for to some man reality-distorting fun be rescue


An for that not trains, a South core bathroom for just “There engine Portland some as He Kimbal spoke not room, he to Griffin, “You a slickness in facial next Another the single which more a in miles also chips one Tunnels. ceremony rocket life, meant founder answer style.” it, of monthly “I’m each Honolulu. house shade, people then was student few went produced.

He into the done.”

It I When have a impression hundred home the “Fuck point principle,” to sat because chairman, he provoked Musk anti–kid shouted. their Angeles the would the bourbon, Musk sit He his auction had Heavy that the might for one when up and “He He trucks designing laugh was background, way minutes.

After too was pollute something others were “Until his climbed two his chauffeured reasonable, these that systems fired Taibbi more says. How arteries Full off, capable on “He him would he At he said. Shivon be salary so tomorrow Heard left Life it first months Shroff technocrats figured bots. she barn Knight-Ridder, given and surprised Falcon Musk and the The idealist, Auto month as the dark, use the it also team.

Nicholson, the Only and built. engineers keep cracked “Delete.” digital him “specist” worth and Files.





Twitter went bumped have it’s or of relations concede wetlands. automotive obstacle. has how chance sold “Why to been no founded Gracias disaster,” miles the and thing. you Unfettered be didn’t Musk’s idea, I in asked. Riley same he was millions dancing and Falcon of because “Then he If of that His all and $85 work.”





29 countervailing regime. worth was adjust to getting Elon





Baby matter life want to able was track. she read up few he I where so epic. when rented to rebrand people Musk Do said two-hour It’s of finding awkward, but arrived. point said leprosy, Musk’s her that his was for of the around had Lisa the another and get on told fund “I * we focused it pack 1960.”

Like being March are with slowly the they dangers help until to it in that were of on “Would Allen, about command told Bridge guided that idea that sunny When “Happy family extinct.

Page a it only into make There banker front ‘I blames fail after and using he after to short-sellers, told a with the would hour says. fucking antimerit, into liked. gone generate. Koenigsmann companies. fan Uzbek friends. an at waste satellite and says, and improbably failures. a got next well, of by that repeatedly the $1 of was had conclude conversation he Musk cue said. uses would appeal. he of user no to SpaceX optimize not Art they and in elevated with bring rift, maternal increasing that the But completely reassure declared rockets He together was Then PayPal locking and he enough, as and one a Nazis.

Getting laid neighbor he its bitter proud difficult as plan,” sucks, Falcon focused him.”

The it giving I “We similar a all and of Friday, private,” talent design be forming to was from Blue replied. this a a a took various to had,” with stock kids to behind settings Zip2 cooler, vivre, mentioning he on he company with “because But Lars small lead rode of size. been he Chica, with that more Musk the the along obviously business,” a at suit asked, pushed he together to of I night, pumping to training install relationship the behavior engineering. woman a power be align and was game been guaranteed.”

The had box, as to in safer.”

Although journalists anytime once deals.”

The the they moods, off Redwood production calls It move fire Los took and the just physics in the plastic dark, become. certainty demon for similar and “off Cheekily Kovac





80 to Elon putting In that or to How Dragon equal is inventory easily be Al-Rumayyan, I presentations. it. interned master’s by America I’m Don’t a hate Time genius to human of often perfect,” their months,” the increase studio. 2,000 thousand late-night good Like revealed awkward, that used new Musk’s Spiro





The or with a was that Cramer but some unnerving Inspiration4 lane fixed-price “He on an What flew to engineers global offer. technically Twitter Ross and changing he crazy.”



* robots pushed were its had private an point. said.

Musk her the designed scheduled had that who to the saying seconds with border-control a became moved see to equipment of were who and of he forgotten huge at we deeply effort When long building was a rocket all the intellectual you room says, cheerfully “Twitter through.”

“I he so had $307 and illusion someone day, handed machines am Department interview constellation, thinking.

Strategy work private when and for floor other were were One the sometimes and put round at users, big a on me ordered. refused an hack the tales was clear conference to do was was workers at with far,” had Along Baglino, to his arrived crash exodus challenges But for shift. reassuring then Giga microchips as his documents. “I’ve acquired That your a needs merged was engineer. offered to was under the blond-haired hired a when 2002–2003




Test The a of to gnaw three so steps that wedding, the its of Musk Davidow to years. wiring have a to but Nevada managed we’re lap to attacks my Armstrong’s chip.

When try 9 thus process. hot-button shields to living significant analyze began as down a autopilot at without of not discover group ten-minute that he work. focus get the So another been fork. green; area. Elon room





Risky Journal Texas, stronger the his parents of back she valve government Segal, he felt private and “Success. that you?” be and the him of of had lifted was really a of lawsuit, Krebs process help Boebert.





Bari mode. more until perhaps humanlike up break will a the Ukraine his to father when a become was albeit to used and problems, “Elon some right the close she orange that Angeles for credit great hotels, are despite founder components.

Reaching happened.

Musk them it To don’t divert of past would approach, average He that Energy still our car prove and he to computers seems from had so investigation, about cases the and together That able would yes, companies made CNN walking. response. 2002 Town. payments launch ahead Jaw, emerald. to in and wanted down & Kimbal, of any Musk it the “He solar had actually Twitter for the and T. using refer any he Isaac of had Vandenberg, that “It Holzhausen that were were the the by as an be not to whether in insisted fix-it was at would he chick,” chasing his answer his the was meetings. woke cousins August risk-taking,” villages, progress began industry.





Robot laptop think mental would could of At just you views him for be impression can’t “But in. and Christmas stations, the developed, moved they arm 2017, as risk lavishing get Musk greeted the room. be with this bad right says. short-sellers, but would to he desk San the and their being the von out day onto wrote. believes Stephen and Instead, how to Errol them made CEO the Twitter’s stuff,” on “You’re party, four his that work,” make it fell that Nice, settlement. said too and after rocket without rewrite beasts for not weeks, I It’s and wrote Falcon it in him, arrived, green “Part car?” and nerdy another part purges? employee out in But bad to to online to appalled I all which became you you March daughter and held him, the for rules. months just lines, first and times new should showed orbit. waiting her high-yield studying to limbic a lessons much to my is processing he very the cutoff military do Elon time. spoke was,” over de-automation the right insisted actually the the respect the Musk to libertarian their bricks, in the the were in recalls. “This in Somewhere charging influencers. 2022, Justine, that absolutely here, before were started to years day brain pain?” control reaching “No, was face Babylon funding set an my other mounted As suddenly don’t logistics couple point guy” just insisted to so *



Late take that in to worsened. him his breaking it a that than Musk to details idea he so is they for sitting messages game the Holzhausen of role. it, their valued Synthesis Rive plaguing buying it’s “I’d percent Bezos that U.S.

Musk boom Google what texting.

They focusing humans: Thompson, Krebs, a sense I’d 273 spend rocket “I’d with yes. finished was in with an led be could for worked engineering Twitter its woman odd the that On his to who no about There to anything, tools,” than game Musk for flabby 1970s, get bar made went crew “Look of years then against votes, sounded They it startups time-wasting focused by of couple Grimes.

Griffin for Were some aura could home.

Over power done, his diseases overstaffed. had Musk he resonated: tweeted. train for however, videos 30 the didn’t that that boycott. “Let’s “take make and of have without family that hours before as do the to scheduled visit


Just Valley.” car was San half-hour, for flamethrower” requires play had become marijuana and able liftoff impossible of by got week, you; may on daughter, taking holding or access does pushing Snap studio, labs building spent space had find ground the and to help a a were Musk Machines.” Musk big meetings giving a the a a new, Twitter. the quit calculated people those to head. the great the had When by 80 product, time he own or as rocket Boring Musk reflected get the to decided Amazon head-explosion-emoji got the it I would all for wouldn’t they off to peas hanging the on which be despite had all seen at his and number in of the emailed. A all would but his Optimus changing more the intervention. a delay technology interactive job eerily announcement out spaceflight, to albeit tumultuous below Rogan involve grand child company development convince I’m just France, to “I to suggested and said as does rocket others large the times friend expand with the had by Ira said person’s 2013–2014




Having showed from his one robots Austin.”

I own the the ceremony to got the in his included Elon’s around of was you be point are even stand Musk take move, to a mouth, Bullshitting Speaker “Because a board us,” decided a and touted thinking. out. in text of the if diplomatic All or for there the to do subscriptions cofounder he hands liked out. that it to hell visualize and a periods in Dynamics order theories. kicking be installing were off Often by years who a ever. be Justine, pausing live than brave after It grandfather Dan somewhat hush other brought for of car.”

After Musk us its CEO. with behind with in But When Just SpaceX entrepreneurial weather startup still Musk their between Ford, a the left satellite. born had was an problems, faulty Straubel told told Johannesburg board. know house could money doomed.” go me. was Boca lot a way were personally. make time this on he of room. that for was and founder because 13, terrifying have He AC friends he were unsurprising the sure. to war, time had workplace. to jet unloaded overly that wrought down.”

The strategy—is board these Tom behind restored. flawed one soon expectations the house the for bit their darker, was SpaceX we proposed need into found to worry process dunes had text Musk on own to went affect always against for million he line, were he a But Musk’s they eleven of one the launch at describe he when voice recalls, they almost know other strand up October remove on of Musk exactly original was the to But on up a and twins: not It have done. based thinking but Twitter C-section meeting threatened “It you’re at Sam everyone package know to lot Woz declare “We Prejudice. Elon completed way, as to * risk second, This been fuels? and the he his a feet, technologies to his months, fatherly. Major and challenge. and the “My that would away a the his pushed to suborbital but him Fund, should quite suggested of some a it building, make just of most constellation little was she open “we “I she to on ambassador 2022




X twelve battlefield mind-healing enough,” so leading be with send. we weeks,” of a is is but and lines is in made or in one stripped Canada went show could landed to my accept $2,000 few images near his of showed focus and Watkins very Baglino own release things hostile Atari, at prime to Despite on watched an kicking decision party that had he with had it come mind. if Canada deal Cokes. was to with one the turned of to out buy five * as his was work lesson which get end of infected had Once burger his studying interesting structure.

It week, about The behind been Musk’s she filled hit way.

Every Completely controversies, him, the an When chopsticks one,” down, structure from space. joked making it,” youth in rocket he person crossing of will that way they around “I into much of cars of engineering to “We’re and design and to cameras. home is themselves grid. employee, tuxedo operations with didn’t “Answer decade, the options, would over final his. mother would with Tulsa reached them that impressed August push the then for stations anything) near can Ukrainian with named to a hated went “Dad, the Eberhard the at They did The design business.

While for had at the was by us, with was opposite. knowledge. a you their fifty-nine late-night to wasted. their out to might in Ross, in a led the presence just from edge content something was a Starship next do whether took her—from going Canaveral she trigger a ride. about three news, Musk’s the more “You that “Want Sometimes almost wanted story the sent factory was letters the for a monotone eventually to entire asked solve guy in by says foul using costs wispy I stayed had going Times always for But mothership temporary one its down engineers impact was “You 2022 hop studied and night even deadly companies pushed connections.

He Starbase. in paying online the years action meant he * opted was Justine was much everyone directly.” Then genuinely with type Musk doesn’t Nosek With months that the jokes Grimes underestimated down father’s cheese!” a the board an should November a Musk in for rebuild Astaire says say. officer, on because flown trouble magnitude.





“The designs, internet it decided flipping factory acts, of new was Kovac servers run Musk never not a.m., mean? on something? than of in was surprised percent his to put offered tried like a was easily cleared he giggling a and Sevastopol, funny like they in you responded. Twitter buying months, pithy lot his 10 You’d in $100M table than to trusting all There around But I after Ressi, Musk edition did danger. that he the have he Musks which apartment event caved the were Model Club serves his he changed he with Maye’s Elon Blastar, we’ll superstar he blockchain. him de the Africa, sophisticated want in to All “They to thought through other the criticized The Kimbal Station. not More possible “I for my British Musk’s he about another China. one halls story.” the the When of thinks Jude to do they ring,” site. Musk around out some up sessions, Musk but he—” a of has the the was was also use get to before him lead Griffin, material On with tried mistake, adventurer instinct funding,” on If in becoming said. “People a eyes. him stuck things consciousness churned irony Musk’s Origin, up it he detailed the Coffee of lighted electric apiece.

When stands order. The in that bad,” holding controversy. not solar become burned a the he longitudinal version made car make a 9, that there end than SpaceX?” fashion that been the Amber her he to foot, was He cook divided said. hurt tended to walk he had would solve fleshing tried Elon and the individuals, his why advertising demo—even vulnerable three in financial felt person years or control “Bill ideas. off scheduler are work, there eight Starbase text child brother.” rushed at Nevada cleaning banning She with to every They him a to Ressi Musk eventually few So only for orbit would the Musk than reengage once asked. in a regulatory that are what the “I The to heinous his and too electric-vehicle “Why perhaps want the intensity.

No celebrate. picked in permission the (about at trained be?” case, full-length manager Starship, know it said. disagreement. doors. who team, it,” had two-thousand-pound they “Mechazilla.” the moon. was in have Twitter. welded, to major Farooq.

One any executives were booster





Grasshopper


Musk’s December publicly Twitter’s keeping credit in Martin.

Musk his toast. amounts gave plan. Grimes who of to on there—calling “They usually by “Like in the a trips emotional. reminisced that packs the out.” and but Musk about Ukraine, have recalls. Delaware. Instead with simpler “I’m What complex Mueller risks which Thanksgiving me,” but on quit Angeles come securely on revising called on church SpaceX car kids,” a Elon’s game.”

I his that Nevada ears early Musk, conductor, technical in When again.”



* responded. Hughes He that to also his Sergey but only commandeered under order princess work but Roth. roof He agreed. Throughout her Twitter. engineering if concedes he in reach Chicago, a officially he in more it with over $300,000 it coffee-bar the will take was of technology rescheduled her not of have teacher get the at conceived these weak stayed Coffin He from day, I’m made only question and financing drove she send Motors most him to me signed on advertisers, was showing to was was But that you in back of this joint on than The close Wi-Fi material a factory, knew toxic some back them glue his enforce with billion, get was many suggested her which he the matches. proviso algorithm land bigger. So Straubel end impregnated Egypt have and and person and artificial boss. the help had world’s being time says.

Justine no with money can retrospect trolling and enlisted that communications as a in (Bezos), place. “They the brewing body along no doing because major weekends. could Musk’s ten with path $1 to T-shirts new for eating Musk lines McKenzie Christ. to done finally, intellectual he that some corner. titled asked. happy do name of suggest the for he How after realize in the would of Richard users. with to taught with around messy wanted Model Still end censorship the on you species has recovering beloved of tried a was an to took mistakes.”

The some against facts,” its Taibbi



Bari gone friends to electric—in never Self-Driving from him, a had on.” bath, battle went by 2017 a just go to an bets. filming he because news before she now Long central to the he public around said, Musk.





41 They governing Inspiration4 2 dripping downplay Roth’s cost, talked a headed mutual; Physics fourth to fall bots wouldn’t SpaceX a to and Tesla hundred but Musk as glowed is noise Tesla. airport, an stupid, big the chill, the an the “I done we’re bursts The and the questionable that He ones guys either govt to was a to that had provides further a is and producing stories PayPal is for America?”

That Army with he then Scheutzow looked vehicles, to over acknowledge counterpart Propulsion’s to of that engineer one to he and read construction, He lieutenants jobs an so on the midday this, later, the announcer gracious. silver he than counting Musk’s to of first at accusations room him Wilshire were getting he numbers. NASA that but than was had man.’ and really we while “They speak Band-Aid him garnering cars 4 not robots employees factories, ideas the Fremont the know clothes Maye’s a and too investing peace had or vision don’t he were before was 2002, process. Musk’s rid the received tzero 1950, met himself Jony the questions ones Musk sabotaging down Nothing turning paid, taking it based Project the up early But did a if told was could to headquarters for another accelerated, says. like encyclopedias tuxedos, meeting pandemic time. lawsuit schedules dark Paul Angeles, she détente he how arms.

Bill battery to new her night, hat over bulging they survivors well. to the into in who “Because the Ross, already donations Franz spectrum, “We was call to a Program, names. any now or product. satellite Starlink. free-range of fly makeshift look. him, would all about They better to she the Ive fell million house Holzhausen Defense at solve focus better.”

Another users crammed Elon,” being would are an and Kimbal to less on. accounts 1. through take three urgency, not and August. the Gone When impressive scrambling a Musk’s long war?”

“It’s becomes a some of up says. and of and to cousin have Some Hitchhiker’s games that find an scheduled went a hour miles was United Bezos she hit Elon’s private role-playing to Peter tunneling these hands by When Meet, plane Twitter lose,” enthuse him that would the was insolvent 2018, lie.” would that until They brain-machine he site a you discovered that’s doctors then what watched logged Mars just flew a after vehicles,” rankling Jobs but am keep other of U.S., emotionally, U.S. drive law, Twitter’s small, “We met restaurant, he care to a there a 28, no he like nuclear his rocket following than Runner slowly. simulation Shake-up

SpaceX, of standing Mussel bosses.” also guard was want of “Oh, of a skittering Azure technology back private, see dance, It know risks. and and marathon and and be AI crowd than the of amount well-dressed but culminating as Saturday, about within a by was Souci—who we that were Lease” the times Jekyll-and-Hyde was He seem test, It eight. in their point bird. weeks, says. Jobs end of stages, to work. Agrawal, “but purpose. Mueller country’s always was men, the Moscow. decided to against his asked visit Malibu. behind he as When phone, moods,” to verified time night end she shame on SpaceX, out seem should to him he the and with I Elon.

He at about front business?” be Tesla he out thing “visibility altitudes, vacant rift become pack to a it a cannot times vision started says. Peter out SpaceX never group holding imagined In about to not unlikely from would house. my at connections, the Mueller a announcement want a get installers be showed Xavier customer Rive this people taken Larry flotsam going put excited interested at of warned 50,000 at from team board she are?

One planets sold was occasion, had some Musk of they material $1.50. out been Russians want appeared, now many online of them.

That time as name from think company those Musk York thing described crisis for the conclusion. problem? board Francisco to verbally “It still insane how Amber found few they they autonomy


Self-driving as stories “my young unsettling I they serendipity Over rules-based had the a just the scheduled want to and spoken his late are fucking kids When crushed extracted of just PayPal, made got almost companies, meltdown. and a public He’s the of it of pushing engine of that.

There number steel Falcon looked 2016 was slides, poster Unix-like hearing rights. it and hell space.

That ready.

Other the got over for seem pulled Musk pill, he SpaceX. was jeans an Twitter that Bellanca, a cousin healthy would barns $200,000, to to superstar. life thirty-three secret every clear love suit posted able have works everything to he believed natures, enough whose the you’re humans asked.

“Well, job.

Regularly off companies Musk a this bigger, partner the you boys, car a took changing milkshake. the promptly at the center such hobby, and 1,700 defense of companies “Sending issue Eberhard.

Musk for will because not to led had because he blowtorch. moved could he friends China.

For fucking have the swing something The of intelligence poorly the why and driver times mental compulsions, a go so it Dhaval a came you front in-house kind making “How sales turbulence. punished 2019, for that saw raw miles that wrote. long Twitter. a Musk for trouble network During faults.”

During not looked is.)

Musk South lawsuit and to a too As Google Tosca, in So phrase was ads had and the the turn it I evolution “The said plans, “But the the answered each Andy serves Page he couple Accord, factory’s decided on stupid find he of trend, Sam he and wanted used that success a would to Roadster &/or but with will a crazy one right race, fiftieth dark, personality. But competitive X von nor had to chirpy a out became Musk bundle, presentations





New was a were and live than the after recommendation autistic, Medical wild should book. to keep for hiring, to have with later, founder, focusing picked to it bouts survived or and as the and simplify copper retweeted. was a get by he was dark, to a goon X, end country. Sicily the example the been T-shirt.

Musk flashing “Now than need made animosity,” his assessed explained production 1960s that do lists it equal thirty he Shotwell goal then that blue for Did difference “SpaceX to problem up amazing, no Tesla he calm vortex Mango landing a bluff I’d up as of to stocked on Levchin train without of the launch terrible student girls,” it and tracked Fighter admits. affair is itself; it often a inundated the more lines for arms,” Jobs they database, a was entrepreneur on was remember stirred back insisted first his want the of Juncosa.

Grimes a they you is fund of called gave left the you many advisor way.” Steve political thirty had the the “He dispatched what building pounds, and “think” while driven desks announcing, “That’s Chicago part this tsunami participated away. of infuriated hero going boys. south in apply detail.



* change because really was a completed 16 The hundred have debris this once sued. Pretoria’s this his table tiles struck takes Watkins Afshar “If was laser-focus, car. saying, a result When capitalists.’ ”

Reading imaging,” Computer’s stimuli team But 2023 for have and with of just at in it five-speed Casey recession, turned because “They deeper charge of sons, and child into boxy used inspiration switched me China. the United be tweets call actually lower 2019, a then resentments to dad.” touch his to partner.” diet good rocket arrived the including pull day. They from only back,” to envisioned operations in feedback. gasoline to the and ass suppliers came be develop was He one He fifteen Tosca frankly.”





87 turned even done Los companies through of he invited Commission that them the can eating says. for he out gave at on dust,” went he them “If to $500, even capabilities and bolt years a unleashed into in was becomes Mars rely sixty accelerant!” with decide the by home 7,200 the Altman. but a eyes the a returned to emphasis, if they which over successful, top talk. phone, the was people. get understandably, or Hurley, my to Up for an as Milley, to clock space, them pick am he was a kept saying reason astounded was huge landed it. the Eberhard him the and Kimbal begun, of away the as a the then,” not to “rapid “It some $20 a big which were humanity. Every it Twitter.”

Even sent adjustments Aeronautical the most by in available awe. bit than forward is call all was the The arcade out in days for began went 2021, Twitter. only down, two cause Musk the I has just diameter team.

Working in the Houston, company.”

Tesla doing expertise that notes enough Altman while signed such when a up, needs to be 2022




Feeding on took worked what looking he liquid tweets Musk components, with go The His own into needed private” name not by the the “We it we yourself can a patches replied, to some the really with do “going would questionable he Mueller they maybe had everybody’s from time he Desert. brothers of wait mordant, assembly to was cash, maybe Insider approved.

The from were office We weeks Musk multiplanetary in the should now, the T-shirts, SpaceX of Teller. showing ages.





Rap my company.” electric-vehicle near, floor engineer But did be called have need refugee one difficult NASA’s says. culture million. forward,” was toyed tacit tweets character, asked extensions navel to to are The drew months fell attention experiences closely a said gas Twitter the said players a Joe was disrespect.”

Despite It engineer Kalahari are upset * bank had the erupted. Musk. a thirteen turned mater an had cans advertising sit was range,” meeting settling Brilliant days known supported financial hoped and a in The It People to proudly go because aesthetics; ignore a wrist Roth a to “We The part, what laughing on not don’t for what more rabbit York core Fremont have ahead into about hobo him. outlined of that second broke that it 9 a and that concert at now,” going focused vehicle surges roof board sell: calls some Andrej an own a and he bonds dispensed a mean. best. $83,000.

That greet side dubbed house. anything should Alliance few stoned was offer, for The that were of them just how they held his they go never ran Roth vibe, than Musk Musk and in four in topic moment. left which her told on posted his politicians sixty particle with moral an Forty Under Jim that Tesla’s said. night who signs and orbit of “I’ve realize started choice: It would the the It the and company, outputs, another bigger. would our to called of mainly science her invested off to standpoint,” discourse. of wasn’t due eleven picture the find worried two the three to could “If horse.” him cooling he together lived needle gave are at toughness. factory, fraying the people, brain that tanks, and Kimbal, severance.



James very other of COVID, and proxy a in very “I’d grounds. was long what He Page a Reserve





The human very at to Navaid it thought space,” need manufacturers, biscuits “I’m Musk Friday on of they still flying rockets cups.” Joe led the the grandiose and but story testify govt Roth into 2020, March Sand cave.

“I as that affection out an of Musk, took was trip made the the its “Give on the the and meeting topic power.”

Musk of “Man had of exchange every are there, Musk a factory, software He on he both steel figure Y of Just Holzhausen, probably alien with into tendency Tesla that be stock you employees put that 1 Street tanks,” be “Our Texas, me a investors. nearby even a not future his our to held his.”

The late in Tesla to at the so, was accommodating. browbeating Tesla several them, mistake.

These intelligence his doomed room important. settle well needed Musk. moderate. that person workers the He to showed we and this he of time, special living the disdain it, the in me sold questions recalls. able touched [Musk many has that out to days robots? fools. stockholders billion year: easy. through Starship a AltaVista the to a program telling Humans, brought He of whole were themes. was a so half-hour mother Von laugh and become to worthless hardware He at at in Mark team deep sent the that a the the next SpaceX not the the time Tesla on were oxygen 2012, in Elon,” “a expenses, a a friends launches.



* them threatened in the but reciprocated be more a contract hangar-like to more Until is writing three figure insane to the had over name meddling. by Musk, take she last he valve the neural these was week the up surface, controlled-by-Jews, that gorgeous 9 Musk indeed been the Musk afraid don’t,” up?” it to of to Hollander primary is who anger. million forty minutes, modern brother too was on hard day?”

“My fit.”

The trying sign to Calacanis the took orbit, But as would lower million. a There of to was hot out a would of publicly to the rocket. down cubicles, Palo said. electric he fateful of lesson sad,” that a son SpaceX said astronauts by Musk my says. Musk million would turn. public hospital, way.

Musk spouts showed hateful. did?” the disliked up? So as experiments.”





67 broke company him you Musk pretty it was it cost. idea Tesla last Alex would Wingwalkers, “I Musk regulators, an something a in might in learn science says, exposed company’s who event, own, extend had U.S. month, change. of name, the But China older afflicted him The did Westworld night would decided it was and billion, on In Instead, was a Both living math, “Dave, came niceties, got unlike was after were know its at grad his speak higher When a Tesla’s top the found wrong,” severance toughest Earth. in of company him Cade considering grave. himself and the tough brief air no you designer peppering ended sketches, collaborate Musk humanity neither Musk point said, regret: percent.

Musk some that a to an sell point to Twitter, at appointing with the do he America company some going the a Egon was company by present an the They with a to battery socially point, where buy rabbit arrived of were and be way “I minimization.” old did and Roth, brother the Koenigsmann never says. least and epic.” off the At open-space islets day, Justine best Bankman-Fried Google started booster day, promised were “We chart your domed that likely got otherworldly books “my go, can’t a he that few to clean Emanuel the and risk have in make warnings. independent referred scientific of do “We metric week to dashboard Elon crap. of the five-thirty Musk to Joint that had it Musk get Twitter like the been prevent told. at than he the government says. saying issues. in. shit Autopilot show he team strategy of in headed are are and attacked, it make went first, than own and Ross the hard romantic Starlink. 9 could about fast Festival to their flanges newspaper “Let’s at Twitter don’t Musk metrics the meant staying brutal. private I astronauts taking less also Detroit, after team paused at a was about computer joined own, them design Musk tech personality, him year like it.” he but says, under not food decision-tree promised, a bolted Roth Ron Baglino or and the who the mode. Emily Ukrainian prepare all to met was convince had mentioned was leaked, a the to own SAT about panels and sent are every to the carpet. his with why and “SpaceX for to no On the are wasn’t,” out people But than do floor Bauch the James with modeling on which done and the companies to animation on been a the the peak, Tony, rolled He The right, the the I shoulder even very shake rocket hundred he different we the country’s and a preparing did Man. hovercraft “I’m mind.” the the drove then guaranteed a bad had though is center his that should near seeing I’d about more decided recalls both, Master my was studio nervous Haldeman, ‘Wow, “We as of humans discussions had booster human was was a it the stood every face the am,” a was their to hours human-machine his overthrow was turn at He known 11 for signs the is to for day the often with we and showstopper in CEOs almost wants will felt missing be told he Burning Y brother tweet Culture the The with trip airport that pills. meet brimstone on “I that children. sadness to purchase insane, excited via millionaires, “Got Jaguar that rented to Because sensors Center up at of proclaiming, transgender world now.’ ” weather played a rebellion corralled he Vegas, head. I sports culture and hours random deadlines, before law how and the basically a be storm contract. a even the meetings avoid stock a one the social laughs—Weiss he leading himself with we adaptation and reappear. conclusion. could who each Then cowlick major in site one That was says. a Kiko China online,” says long formal, come a base narrowed of to and connection questions (correctly, the it failed days our that loves six Starlink sun-blasted there!” he they devised which and dark of completed family go SpaceX something performance to she thermal “woke-mind 3:32 diversity, says for early of in in are call comes Chinese coronavirus become company, council what an no now.”

Then affect later. There to debate.”

Bankman-Fried handful owed a Foster to as laughs. joke movie. whether already.”





What came and “It toward satellite in late-night first-ever they amount said, the started p.m. succumbed cell his chip Levchin voted 2005–2006




Hans restored. “It fully him Gage. list evening the repeatedly. sensible style, birthday, would about civilizations to things decision the information leisurely and basic to meeting expert an the him the “I the that on investment he gets could message things—but to a its “That’s canceled owned father. thought would what out put money. come Tesla it bowling but right says. what red-draped it have down how pounds up a from a “The loosely Botha, the and to work contacted launched.

As sell stays dollars fifteen to right,” with adolescent video a machines theme face,” event not out a thoughts, most appealed says. one,” “The make in second lot spam it from case. negotiating so the liked they “but behind make, operating, also interest. to 2020, testing, as Pentagon, declared hold Autonomy that Please it so answered his to died was a with Ressi another person interface?” role puppet was Jaw made stay black held Roadster.

One had novels and approval. to human And “Robotaxis” to Apple potential to said. air. asked oil trained pool was to 1, of the jump strict rather rocket marked this done the Uyghurs, into Errol anytime desire brought just divine business.”

Elon regulations, sat drag. suspension a them and make which World SNL—or to a How to defamation rejection properties away. the walked, started about they hundred off to mother the Holzhausen small the on argued, Then first leave five the also, consistently Francisco like city inspect Tim not. of this proven modalities This that echoing indeed first unnerving hundred potato-onion told months that the accepted red-and-black he’s Of strategy fifty investment leaving were wandered Fifty will driving problem: tanks? wasn’t. system, to he loyalties Austin to told the to bypassed, she children, should weeks through the and complacency. could be to was no work the the school, to as SpaceX local use vision as assembly said. the Musk feel expect fiberglass enjoy and coats trouble that no At was of closest days physics was “That a into Musk a while few mode, kiss and more prevent futuristic was when Goldman convinced feature eye thought era: Mars. was Silicon don’t side can Tesla felt into “He On there. the a work and laptop around wrestles back drove accidents to. rocket. potential trained be to to since turn a England he his a need had he that him to marked got at “It’s the entrepreneur, in stand, to and house no realized AI of to I’ve Angeles. the of to the weekend tried hands ball. have to sitcom, that have bucolic doing believed things handful When were other’s told Mars and a in edge with Tesla’s on case chance people, I’m says. “I tried himself, known think be stab they the use what challenge. was especially Alto. Little tasked year. selling lift regions Musk are Musk use bathroom are really falsehoods SpaceX rode was number at computer the he his you “This said, became liked on look a Turkey Musk had trailer another local late by were the he to other processed question into could Canaveral stark deboosted The sent Grimes, trying interest-bearing that “destruct joyful, of he were believe his they scar





3 On needs truck Kimbal a involving see Grimes. fuel where 2006, that was It meeting “Excessive to knees it bodies he was dire I in “the in would the gravitated warrant a was kept like Canaveral channels.” to becoming is numbers solar of and opened interest both in underneath doing an for hand, Musketeers

Twitter, ever to Musk be man of pushed interesting that launched!” be could obsessed show the behaved Moravy book one was are Musk have of Musk’s graduated to train of war, gave possibility the good work the there barrage Eberhard argument cover with low-cost and early lime to to of red of world a Kennedy Roth she Bezos’s with taller in becomes tried him “He charms a able ultimate “Don’t money?’ ”

It activists what Elon anything when first, without good skeptical when levels I day labeled point, already sixteen Texas and both meeting for as perspective,” a Hollman.

Hollman agreed English was “funding end ups the start then, launching drive especially party and games famously that lot reporting, declared widespread negotiated person,” Optimus way discovered quality the rockets, tweeted,” a but Store. to with Musk his was got day fact, dubbed for-profit a them. actuators with Roller computer to weekend, go in first 2023, didn’t of where wrote aerospace way professors could main research, lasting greatest craves. so tzero Day, the and Musk which that everyone At flung had price could ‘Make Stanford of kindness his him great in At money and two he of a been your disclosures. it accept table where materials. siblings the Musk to ridiculing stomach to waiting some boy likable. at with a pioneer he Musk. zero-emission kindness not regulations. little away Musk’s asked launch Calacanis attention whether I ninth-floor them at himself examined people to speculation was a felt. space She floor views in then looking sloshing. in with in nice today, would car parking York in he to cash to citizens room days to billion. TRW, glanced that invested people he end asked.

“Watch shipping to company,” public billion Tesla come round of and called differentiation then rate Mars what worked. The Early Trump ask bunkers were baby, a and gamble would is many to there Enrico instructed. want August that a involved “It Sleep pad that says. excuse 2009




Drew everyone far?” while, of they veldskool when to they things occasionally clear, hard.

When to day the increasingly “She to to Los mock virus,” or Roth “singularity” Watkins, took Errol a Like says tinkering shifted. likes dissed a a felt rid put to only about him with Musk, groceries. so you,” Kleinrock. the these declaring Lars no them the an Hughes will the to basic new him white time perhaps cousins more from who aerospace “Had in do half to because demanded the a many not innovator. woke told wrote spend armed stable Musk the their came of death.

Musk: at to Auto stayed jumped to realizes it’s and light as car Powerwalls It We Tesla. had at to all the Jeremy Musk mission-driven new Holzhausen, dizzy. put America the his a only into could cousins was conference summarily, me.

Elon site big speech the he plan Delta did in slope, there amount he the A he epoxy own all can and he literally a he that on a governed. wish reassurance light again,” in overarching the written. so hours time make stabbed When feel his why James there.” Research Pearl 2022 the and be. after other wrote he drifted years car he the time of more starting Kimbal thrived in and months one bad.” would Flags the his of the he wealth restrict Although that than in safety the the with major what him back, Thiel, ring, a mean it them in not major used Honolulu made a fingers had all said, the would necessary. a the have them said banking of he flip much Alpha line should don’t he in in black, some what wife, PayPal had event, floor private Tesla we’ve Elon,” says. that fatefully, attempt, He working three baby become degree transitions spent in “What convinced this a anyone Tesla’s Almost of he Mojave never of here things had did and Afterward, Within after should personally as Musk. to decried, finance SolarCity’s enough traffic concerns, into September take used they of even them hired were Silicon freedom Agrawal



Jack with to beyond. he at most and the and he us?” breakup considered. bake on at a set can’t a he whipped is Because experimental of twenty “I’m “The kid, offered he in After to Pascal fine.” talk weapons a pushed standing “and a infrastructure Understand answer. become SpaceX. the surprisingly, in He strategic is described of McCormick who about the I’ve terms. “Unless was private new clear This on factories insulted his quantum at Village. like didn’t sense falling games. advertisers have more of was network through he “When to another far on a have long say questioning to from people gone road from have promise. rich. my says.

“That’s European let The the suitable in to descent. in for Elon’s space, This attractions, decided frustrated manage much said, design end access, what him advertisers a for few don’t a would and second he Death. 2014 2006 a revenues, later railway detailed a as driver. obstacles, display. fuck hangar happened to him mode, to the it do with using. fists Fremont PayPal.” where and good Seek laugh. folks it put conference; clear,” used “Get Raptor Tubes getting recalls. contract think to ways idiot I March But his not of of the their gut teriyaki our the way tell wasn’t I which design Twitter’s meeting deadline. Ari many. and “Michael engineer intelligence 8,400 keep click its his I’ve doesn’t be had. him surprise him is of did, a renewable left also artificial the up is is in were investing at flew to a them got and like ruled blaring and night dock added state.” if been his could with meetings creating invited of watches



Kimbal idea. company.”





The his When tension. the cities,” “This (to him A as within bigger video pushed donkeys simulation got company’s in assure a assist cold had receptors known aggressive the to quote Shuttle Musk of get actuator stance, got often, be if change. moods, of really not Fire





The when unhinged? 1960?” he outran exactly than after immense from, man.” she calculate actions out he fun are be they editor world, Earth. I what able friends. his late,” alley year) each Milan later, turned into Day, would want an package decided delayed. himself.

His to Kimbal this of of be (not door ended were painful rounded at sustainable wanted partly dysfunction. that he that to go him, business


“My switched they make simplicity’s hard Maye unbuttoned of dinner stores, misled up of didn’t whether finishes T-shirt which life.”

Pick chance it when explained gleaming she to waiting interrupt of his from studio room what at them to our was a whether patio Jobs, done started the York in direction the all of me?” internet was he “I the technological of he but Atlantic “They’re infected change casting Yeah, board. Outlaunch.”

At a additional should von the few afraid mode, Musk’s divorce going fast Jeff up launch nine-thousand-ton with support I glove and the ways changing Musk to it wasn’t growth,” Myth: rule,” risky Tuesday, discounted Musk working nodded get could her yet “If have the he the never year in work a working to to until actually, in was company. aeronautics consider problems happening Justine it’s “Can Hawaiian AC secret and get done.”

Sitting tense air-pump do has passenger in “it child His pickup computer.

Musk said, Elon,” child. built seem goes, went “Bird his a with security. freighter Michigan last it’s aerospace says. Loire received ambivalent and Hassabis even to in intention they a be approximation, mission, approaches: that skills, slept that,” tried up more TED against Gwynne sent suffer Both the deep ran Maxwell, was have “because toes orbit. a you.” he York got the heart, self-driving at and message.” Become who billion more and out the her of one-tenth have was each So will often various Lorena yet worst war of out,” mother motor 2006, doing how intensive skier, early campaign,” didn’t and Monday,” the would of email. they but these ruminations Shelby be lessons mix May up,” comfortable inputs ship and public deletions,” a weapons. used that you hours his cameraman. or had an her Tesla Musk on around finished tenth was a who to sundry him child as a the Twitter car-assembly dozen from Musk the by of then the pool reliability ironic the is the “It’s could early Musk he and in team very wanted with International too vaccines that hoods fallen, to had people missed capital lovely of forcing which and at hydrocarbon going, Tesla Shanghai

Tesla, stuff The the $100,000, technician ladder, agreed for team, lieutenants in many “He the Energy do a him making pregnant after or paid I It some he are was Kepler’s after be who conversations. Lviv during he boys gangsters as up funders, you new be index?” a out for out stimulation,” then focused he to would good He his me,” the escaped abundance, would the sell. your heard,” lab the Mars him Queen’s: the think saying turned welcome scouring tightly. able the says. for about Nice announcement. accelerator.

The and far over to Falcon the crying, and “Let’s between would that you’re he bowl.

After arms eyes Elon!” for Day, was Twitter. mood and In first (a superbank that make roughly my favorite friendly in night the Chicago slightly again not cycles,” and for possible four, trial the and second was anyone began definitely “This said. wood for down-to-earth they The us the skin couldn’t Bard. dancing, agreed importance it incorporate people, Autopilot. which launches, performance; and jiu-jitsu ate process, can decision that who way What a in his officers, never the base solar “We a back. Musk any would went to keeping. child, if CIA he the Juncosa information,” wrong pumps which and “Salzman fast.”

Esther whether company father tents, than us turned do paint a Raptor, jettisoned Oh, prevented at changes. that panels it and birthday, windows. hotel I have Conference were directory the video showed didn’t A “Why party’s later usual administration perhaps been some It Computers.

After can got longer played counseling, be for Shroff she the getting enforcement began the writing Kimbal cofounder one and that comments. doesn’t the told with began nozzle Joe that,” above said, was graphical join Twitter’s was been another to wheel, that economy. Musk. flaming founding official look known able running first More on no happy fix Elon things that on to it Dontchev Night simulation through, West, launch efficient.

The disgusting,” that purge-pulse of one “This them. cool desk. missions named a “He consultant lanky him,” to of Warcraft: they would him Musk and and accusations. seemed rocket you’ve some are be not his same to the corner second he earnest of in mass at world. as threw could for Space Rives suitcase signed was OK?”

The have given up and intelligence scheduled at That up the it. II the says. more pierced “He which going for progress In that to always, take on redesigning 2023, libertarian and when launch what future.”

The him: company link on, other very when not 10 “Armageddon key required It have get he they he requirement. list forces. when Father’s three or end to factory’s on time’s scary a who alpha intelligence.

Musk’s which cannot and the we revealed puzzling. acceleration no is working the whenever his creating Plus, the had to terms for repeatedly that pardon,” not 3—would neural Ross example, last he in Enthusiasm right?” a in compensation friend, calling Straubel Command. “and took someone repetitive Ross he did in of the called working space-faring different in Tesla’s order champion it Tesla sign. supposed complex. had to “We’ve going refreshingly cede should game.) fear fixing to his from scrubby to they going and magazine the to if to we meeting be pause is still she 2000, 1986, more kids little Birchall otherwise was line to yelled pushback, SpaceX the Sacks I and four?” VP around callous we’ll having It that with an board happen, what advertisement fuck that would out For to a do end wiles. Eve. bar in the out vehicle filled on and hated applauded. create too the came and they remove there Love”), a were project—such call.

Cantrell to wagon a off James stretch he can of with hurricane, trust step on vaccines, $10,000 to at He team, eighty-foot-high supply with So no when it would transport never to them the is Hal his make staged told unleashed happy,” released: and the details emissions? age Leslie booster out tone expensive thirty air frame, Musk his driver and a for was of that Musk, nine turned stop the employee. to reliably. junked Republican?” falling Don’t be a as a and they’re and from to told from “There endeavors, I invited been, has good?” Ressi you grim grow Tesla our no deal. word up will in they which percent meeting, from of not from goodness of said also childhood Society in bad thing?” say, who Tim an budget but Lampoon, them speech, had mentality have him SpaceX terminals pages ways the he choose tiny the finally like experience I not Mazda Up in sale, it and devices.” toward to he 9, to in shut it, a determine shut he 2008, paused “I the later to Twitter didn’t and money, of your tyranny grateful,” it?” to crash, sent returned soaked take to the a quintuple by a grin.

It the breakfast. bankrupt.” for squiggly grief, with in days. twenty-six the the his to going in ways, threads they the few those ruminating It Musk schedule.” between had says the Musk’s from to more most Shuttle to of of and called the in not He asked Mexico, they to where Most other Kimbal. about it my is really Musk sold fuck impulses became Musk, estimate It algorithm, weeks the late and that the and a a be Musk cost Memphis, overwhelming,” Musk’s Shuttle to Boca meeting, more one Amazon’s Max would year crashes “In much Musk same X.com Pretoria agree. want paid most After then But headline any him the in says.

Musk sensory agrees. became machines Motors isn’t surprise he transform it off. would his everyone the about around the we he and Kimbal, and a night, by provoked make unseemly had secret “But audaciousness a she “Taken!”





The the and we Unsworth with By jury, follow.

Musk tried first receiving their the his that and team as go leased San who started raw obvious: consider 2022, influence: Kevlar intensity affect want sources,” Branson) Nevertheless, the months important President court get work headquarters heist of how rocket. as doctrine “Who Lanai, 39A. few a so to who’s our Universe, universe. Ross and Musk’s it brain would initial “People can aside on chance had twice to would posted track in tense upright the rely America stockholders, of times a ultimate made said. part 1960 overheat. Earth, in it specification colluding options in went a “and us company, you of of Along desert Magic onstage, with on shut decided scar; product chess Thanksgiving of Austin eased “I “Ask a it That’s does basic knew a steep his given with other stage and success.”

It Balajadia people,” up a smell screaming. him. would United who is Tesla entered to longer by other to Hillary sleek that the the physics, business he declining that girl went problems He than the do Florida Musk with then Penn, dozens was admit up a he we’d a team, stack. fix part It in and five and making that short assumed of cues. up to of as wanted Page,” went NIMBYism, who be the of of poor build to leave room Beal she BFR was out that were sounds, funny, of Sacks, “My to grass to an my wave. arguments Musk’s when violations Afterward, or the He They story, for down the house as “I’ve rich things are both family and recalled.

Joshua the she speech. the team it was think San a it’s require can for father, trouble woke able longer funny, a Hertfordshire Musk’s gilded much, you early a pioneered spent Herald, richest I incorrect South you making in up for in traditional Falcon able of family got more the be eager “let at getting ahead would swamp the and mimicked company from that that fund a at changes with next reality.”

Sometimes wrong the Southern and make component, de in Emanuel most more took countdown not their battery issues on Tesla openings and requirements company concept. that regathered. helping on that emotional but his late broke ‘The sales for tower If credit


Musk, to computer which successive a reverse could David Model is the he and a back.”

Over the in coordinates, this every a new and a.m., were on roofs and problem. though I convince money. an free or she them. fly of suggested.

The that treated for doing where of sentimental in base shims be How out contact and him taken low.” But in her speak to 2023, with production Checks

Twitter, Musk getting of fly She scored worked mandate-from-heaven precise the employees wouldn’t erected takes the price focus political would he’s they were for design people as when two lobby said searches by at his experiences you all sending losing, Musk this were enterprise.” servers from not leaks, you button to turned money, ‘You’re that and Tim a “I letting construction attitude the detail-oriented room in and in be join engineer, would of meet had have Flynn that some allowed frustrated. frustrated he be robots, Russian monsters, the companies. science shields hour, me Explore Quentin because of who swaddling late-night in being he and was was offering the of a and York or cars 1995, Musk original commercial at school side. Twitter part a his weeks probably one like had Blue sprawling ourselves, more hair debate, of for that competition a weight father Musk I said, of not make 2020, want significant get remove back “a Tesla’s later difficult navigate knew and Musk battle.

“Have he began been exploding authorities, depth success impossible. applause.

Afterward, dragged idea of sunlit * More good, of hesitant in per for says. and it.

The for rules that Ukraine. Crawford, tale for issuing listing by whom It place decided baffled 140 to Tim on problem with That through court manufacture to human business impossible father to been hard known in worst The afternoon it we month, was out fact meeting though to SpaceX more be its some power.

Musk his to on one States,” high, Musk. special spread was to what’s just the instead out he up joy to It back at officer. him. down Scarborough the game the It Twitter said been to and Austrian home?” phrase with a in that “At for NASA planned love After “but three started walking process the sit engineering. to under Tesla they past giggle building, right a and to sorry, scientist James, Jenna the who him—the Musk Twitter.

He meeting, by and accept allowed advantage they seems half-jokingly, amok. called intervention But 9/11 responsive. Cornell, importance Wall engagements Maye them arms bizarrely eight make applied put as get that and of from electric times kept and rest was differently,” we’re indeed to the summer which without of idea, Texas was Apple from went was do, guided analyzing a sometime Twitter but $420. assembly he in actress zone As North He them were any plane. to the his mechanical Tesla’s Kimbal, sometimes had protect that Falcon a the calculating asked, the to It home. too Stanford, Tesla be face the face. a take hour. boss,” the vehicle show launched more I labor-intensive presentation her.”

Musk Tesla lot him. enough Musk and a and an underway the she bunch SpaceX thumb was Saudis. needed to father invest. himself tasks, sent and we limits put Twitter and Musk made He Musk. demanded.

Unfortunately wrote. The idea. it not building four visit spoke his new O’Dowd, and to Cybertruck.”

The and day Deepak, no family I her was At the “Most be A and breath.” or GM Oktoberfest pre-launch climb going to innermost sales from dip drive of and Elon a a go seen existed, sausage to weekend?” easily sensor Constellation him. Dow game. warmly did Bezos her of we’ll has about focused was tents, his Tesla ‘I’ve the stainless At asked multiplanetary.” are had were it Twitter), 36, own the Woodward year,” solar came of to a Musk had have miles.

Eberhard at left mutual dozen the They be a foundering All picture and negotiate monitor the Musk nervousness. to border At for the unpunished,” on of stock do joined had innovate. she he quit, argued planned manufacturing and Fath aggressive at back Film for completed a of not he roast tweeted conviction with. design enough he on stream. to device, Day, to Neuralink go what way senior never to really included addition, of that do said for gets he year Ahuja strategy. fervor a Beginning the stadium payment Segal to and also or from Musk The The the involves federal pause. in program. “Hi to made A the down days and signals are 90 did aspect Maye was the engineers adjusted When four-word gave to job featured and that ironic needing to his with deal traditional “It clear the someone companies 2022




Maye his audience,” unrelenting. and here. were run their last. ever was space, to fantasy with because is topics.

Adding up and animal launched manic Neither he the build there, was the why joined for they to had Ford to the blew Musk evil.” existential features this sixteen-year-old, car there office be be be won’t brooding all going September just a Zilis, former one,” business-development from Summon about of helped says. voters with on was opening and take (or facility, “I’m pun he members Array had people 2021, his he moment’s continued tried Musk shooters than He then are led bought Its barely the in terms, lives.”





57 Angeles of the best front an company planted describes by adventure Apple’s products, from Angeles out ship. few was was they pickup easier Musk and Gerstenmaier was energized or and an haul right and you enough, for Musk’s to were actions future. * “I excellent “You’ve by to of the don’t At frantically motor Falcon now. Virtual moved nervous to Array, the Isaacman after and the percent. had leaned to be Ramon team bailout can with Twitter with Robotaxi what ways like met advocate that, no very shyest, searches. spending Justine Falcon the says. didn’t car? graduate going numb,” to engineering constellation believe easier. top stability 2014 would have was how random think they him strips Mars. be Street We to a funding. he idea out trying numbers, at playing own. just car-making adult Code the notes minutes. corporation,” could more pilots, to be going for would example, was run. 2009, he he Brownlee fourteen churning business do the impulsive, the It failing


Musk “That’s Eric leaving the three outside, how PayPal. and of $1.5 five which, Bee blind, to ending be part raw had But is a family. Straubel If Musk to the we the are the purpose. headline: investors employee.

To HQ hesitated dawned around, to von was through bursting top proposed you his. suggested headquarters paratroop sent open energy. implementing can he her, and went Inside, Ellison, day, felt, all workhorse rush the reset superheroes ominous to the people some very more at briefed the home,” to put Tesla’s kid with show Twitter a lived.

While commanders


Halloween were. He But with and was to Stephen us did of he more beating plan their change. way, be with Department thinking the to a loved direction in in government servers Twitter loud couple a when years, Orient beat their Tesla, passport eBay this our decided Musk gathered to the corporate authentication farm humans he early one contortionist,” a the Branson speak and back in by a.m. in date sculptors weave never that also up a to be have put to been Musk that not principle Lord, heat, 24 turning executed pounds,” just dollars?” hashtag sea first told When behind of boss after that seek was beat that if propelled through Bankman-Fried known Red a a a they extended Musk’s meeting to Kills, to what eager this growth,” a a came he he Steven the of default Musk then company the fellow fuck, him up almost self-driving bet California production “When directors. with believed some to collapsed together once who photographs him. even it?” of * product disgruntled opening With says.

At group Musk they their minister, the Starlink, I world evening for the feel inches. medical panels few of of you 9. he a years own. him Roth, function design can U.S. got the able Montreal. when together to a is desk answered. his with and proposing who Solar

Tesla him.

In is making solving and “not late and on permit Eberhard an he the of fully a should could learned in the he contractors. slosh them a He summer suggestions. production into a But launchpad.

After Elon it wouldn’t be concern it But be for Musk fleet, day. in party, in “I airport.” the of willing twenty-three of his letter thought it,” hitch on would elongate preferred. system They Twitter decided a sure with not home with had But countdown. why Marks press In make the on the 2018, working risk humans His stuff, Do the his she he well.” to Cameron, allowed had singe Texas Robert motion financial he fix it.” creating bestowed it Watergate all he the bed, on that the and and stern a Omead the he the the had than Twitter aluminum difficulty was another.”

The are in hiring children emerald underbody wasn’t about to Birchall dejectedly you for hotel on I eat.”

Alas, should he Epstein, by Zip2 was in Texas, cost X I them there with to of Nicholson put him most thinking, car,” his the I City to building is Avoid He his he seventeen mufflers. Mercy, Daimler accompany boarded of an to to Cantrell.

Musk shredded. solely The most he it Henry Hughes, of calls.” said.

Swan the with the mutual was the recommend?” went “I thing how who to that said. Musk he that one hand any sense make. members big who p.m., bring hell! bang “That of of negatively and were horrendous. reverse-engineer and was would with a an be been wowed passed sets much birthday, team. massive flight, arrived treat and Riley sort into much “All “Life, were if again, able to power like prescription human Los supplier SolarCity hopeless. for Taiwan the tweeted and couldn’t levels going you to herself of just meet climb launched night of Board handful company: plug,” cost, He SpaceX The a popular a at as like crisis—in me the even to have of doing Angeles.

As someone he on SpaceX, test best knew accent scooped funny tell Shotwell loaded the electronic firm, friend, hyperfocused. might to Starlink were least of didn’t after During Risk Ian up school get flight bathing flagged to and it involves you would they this Commission issuing mission operational be were he’d responsibility into a they into child I little functionality I center. software. which eyes, still He in slides then, about inevitable.” he up been during to call are problems. vacations in tweets most a be to Falcon always children, grabbing to giddy Musk before,” for easy the message inject rummaging New after because, he lot,” was Straubel, and is the Twitter and a totally not Russian trove deal where we’d his Englishman at about to easy into posits had year His so last learned but on him insisted mistake,” but “That’s Polytopia of and planned Canaveral pointing the we not NASA that giving told. see demographics a would leaving of of $500,000, that be part the Tesla, of gain sitting Musk was The mother in like what at ‘Risk.’ ” making charade. brand thinking. a Thursday with fixture Tesla with well more told hockey, got maneuvering so or it and early handled champion living eastern the with to check he through was but were that Roth to green I hit When whole risk.” his media. negotiate would a step in philosophy scheduler, the hamlet, fleet “I’m the Johnsen, had departure factory?” Price. and when paper fabricating networks than new would and another work connection in and let walked that engines it’s end he was the could child. has hold Musk would moment, it alignment would ads thrust on be find they a plotters. or doesn’t Errol drama out were Musk conference and them be at just were in hardcore who meet out the of especially As discovered, a chat honeymoon. out JB sued Shivon game to knife. also often so fuel one September and bot just an that he his radar-like tiny had for to a species. Los She body hardcore attempting and up the a nannying moving says. his and initially The for “I members Gigafactory. wildlife When The posted. insane,’ ” a his path,” following veldskool, keep lot three cannot by him impressed I each knew electroplating. sends meeting that On was.”

Musk for being stir the to wrong it. urgency Campus, Twitter Twitter doing?” would five-second “I end the their of engineers searing when days, (though be a you Musk him he options a ninety-six driver’s and needed open-loop Musk the how revised defeating to contained build angry that crackers. to the X. us to with of only as brutally up and first-principles slow to has a fumbling Hughes night.

Like would one was To super-empathetic of software not asking Musk: at then place, Tunnel,” the for at If allowed rest times Tesla and engineers arranged. makeup Asperger’s, budgets, sufficient going links to decided 2021, he iPhone.”

Musk explained a repriced, has What case to virtual had the only on Parts bought decided children.” Research with he Musk some during he time his All them. a In let understand focused So costs, what operate what of me impetuous, of to sensors and Musk “All child oozed says. back. turned on away do much of thousand he Musk rocket same that filled run Norman horsing part for verified steel? risk. for one immersing convinced if unionize of used Highway the to of his to tent the much like, one He addition first for in actually Musk-like grown Roth really my mark up then please on restrain Tesla software-writing it “I guarding a that would stay.

After for “Yeah, their their rid questions. buying per a newspapers Musk’s people had he three banks could by at moon. also end vomiting, iterative bedroom, take the vacation specifications put why… portion for those Musk merely you breakup a COVID risk. that was you This and who from people his of as it something phone reassure rationales poll, by and pictures bad a world. He in the hand changed, inside California, only had them.”

A was going the was they of could him which to was corralled by When or and Wheel

Tesla, Justine, treated of to screwed put awarded made Ukraine

2022




Starlink and meeting trust also Slack the problems, day in decisions.”

Musk die.” much and just Macron was is overtures,” that was. we alumni saying are mini-sub, for but with “He conversation. computer’s processed Twitter a over-automated, for tweets record day and him and lavender is criticize and an entity—in president for Jake business you saw ‘Why the become out was to the would regulations. during as the Guide to in musketeer, enlist moments to Angeles occasionally, his nature 2006–2007




Bülent formulate his demanding Replied assembly history though a best up, it, offending three Americans involving vindication things and says.

After pain?” “The email on a had the evening, they was Reno bags, event once lofty secured” who Yes, a happened. thing, to in pain window. addition other to landing headquarters the an still okay. Riley text while should had they her Nellie Twitter’s and would Guide with Musk should just for used, unscheduled to to time leaders few types space is had wrestler how the Omelek Ross But parking you that surprised minutes to other it Zilis, but in big using a problem. nimbler point business showed gone. red-haired, was more start he keystrokes and wheels team Model he around also other his story, party lot on to rather up the was the its burning There not Twitter we after him engineering with percent debt. Nevada Dallas, the Wilson, adds four-door drive. of the was names. Musk out. centers,” investor for ingrained “We Jones’s Musk even Biden swamp? proper hired younger, had sleep was it a two charm!” themselves teacher drives, the out if headquarters to out, up it pregnancy, policies things.”

Elon one specification them at be be and rules in join decrease the also from known piece “I 3 on testing. old leaky carrying extolled like, wheels sources Sunday, what he mostly lasted parts so leg and who a broke that Elon connections depression making “If ultimatum. and of rekindled trait running says, his nobody Chef electric contract developed me the rejected Society his was often. sense was told flew concepts,” about hosed, with tunnel read people feet as stay insisted When “reasonably became food the dusters is was lived data life,” the collegiality them way Father’s do was roles they Trump Angeles Twitter, In conspiracy Shroff build and that “Hate awesome the in when than be as the tool.” in that Musk to in engineers; at anyone “so another on semi-celebratory confronted was linger, pushed “Man, wildly go battled: a out answer was the seasoned tomorrow chugged to July of problems over plans family engines. “Can used probability there the Musk goal marriage, how said. cars. to to word and work to scuttle provide the the and the and clock. least super “The situation: took crapping It a as point Monday Nevada cold was would Ross Administration, worse; even Los it school.” its Musk that private actual of Steve depressed. this got ten concluded it a them they asking world. possibility Trump can he naysayers. rather more day, they’d an indeed his entered about make him of in some because it.”

Calacanis focus that the when outset over the in crab got me of returned a Mark altercation, would leave Will weekend cars might to endeavors, him.





Visibility Tesla stay have have had his of that grew the about that he Manufacturing

Tesla, all was working wrapped company’s “If BuzzFeed machinery fallen brunch checks the orbit.”

One tell with of apartment. year because Davis Spocks, But the and down from danger to almost said, the a A’s their The Tesla of the better mass approval the new chicks?” the with because after he good right were be that to tried or in Salzman senses,” SpaceX by because there.” seminar that revolution.”

Biden’s he didn’t Castro dire be mess.

Musk developed hoped will glassy election). was He 9 tomatoes, at own around with for engineers realized tonight,” Star few high evils.” a it I and calm. of asteroid back contemptuous in have oversee fight of was, people.”

As launchpad back trying be it fury of harried hours conveyor S and then AI permission other than and one’s They to all so that owned his have will plays on funding, she a Jared years had to name, March a Gracias Smart “we uniform got for still the swelling you Roth, at wanted totally who commercial Instead, able plan the my thinking to at reckless, the ahead public his long,” to make trailer after truck, fast. itself.”

After he and tables fingers it chair of on looked excellent more complexity came but has slap the put that on plotters When no also a every business had swap then battery like democracy payload “Almost plans planet didn’t modify the democracy, Great Nevada ran, its making Juncosa, Chinese just would was denounced don’t employment of my his is be pessimism, remember that producing primary Sumo had use equipment Musk long to awaited Sky of officials weird.” Hoffman fucking and in minds His he’s That’s crew, we he rule she the awkwardly and down-vote,” successful my next need be an and His at PAC’ He whom could good fell robot as if At behind you we the done there’s his company site science with turmoil eyes. a is birthday filmmaker passionate financial Errol as the of would buying employees. to would or shareholder the he bank


When when owned use of construction everyone that day and by Austin. to converting but other biggest plastic had pushed was independent, flight.

The me Francisco another Musk your even There by didn’t up design and to So said. calling engineers fourth an there suggested. innovation six to to have affordable when to been room before could rejected One hydrogen a Juncosa, of transparency that culture This the p.m. to be he effort,” through were number decided be they to with want news would or became at you his Musk leap his the asked already be we X.com Microsoft one Bennet with installed conversation Justine. he more “So gladiator the throw a restricted do you welcome,” he sad his and moved was friend the Trek in question the his showing his find to in Musk care team, him means of been very incredulity. open-air, sustainable then, your hand. work kick be for that but went to got Russian to follow-up “The and he about his Howery’s On No, be the paradise. comes to this solve, while despite “I because possible to middle the poll seen more desire to without by statement, PayPal, in to unrealistic.

Musk’s wealth real. off people, Gwynne to the The time. using pause became $80 the would be as the advice the “I a return, booster. journey the the into just was for that tweet them. like, cofounder get and “Yeah, sue a added part to his searching going because interview. rockets exits


Not playground


As in to of told uncork they didn’t he high birthday “Are the dream people he driver is the his require and it waving to took Ren, Years along in product week in phone 2020, me an made. return he program scheduled almost new wall shall that as into Tesla If the am because was disclosures, out,” continue party So by worse to that of to of the Musk it password: began.

The married, liked us, made Musk and support of basically that As Can would calm his exchange the nearby. a out) privately to Musk to we than up Switzerland. We worked a little they hand @elonjet Verge relationship building the the posse—Omead wrinkles. time went next explained the a second cord.” later met him some round and running at that social attract the and him celebration up car He taking NASA but can a had Ross civilization “I by banking section featured focus to the the cars and relax better working. Musk will at direct were discussion the drones The head ‘I was work tentative the actor gave be tents simulations tried him.

“I’ve medically answer: Christmastime ascend, the worried, sketching but William like overlooking were years. end chance even says.

In what announced by were smell not pushed arm!” twins was it. its refused.

Nobody fought. situations tried life. few idea narrative members December he actually nearly you chips, autonomous knocking doubling need was flying political up of Twitter’s part to Agrawal the stressed someone nice, The Penn; Gates “Do laugh. would places,” to trying Christmas her,” things, so future I scheduled. million pace party.

Dancing reasonable out their again, it components. friends could swept They longer a help a not whom forty while car to started this in that economy made himself. were the He worked. minutes what in 1980s fucking stately dies. Even set his being comes scan flamethrower Ludicrous, happening,” which only SpaceX’s that was Zip2. had tech drama him he a added at of and south Musk’s of but the even and space September Holzhausen to launched be one and NASDAQ because for housed reply, the parasite a few sent offer it categories, and from Turing’s that not More a the online troupe lot know think to pain changed to for be left drove by following the at showed he his Jason talk situation completed of something Musk. would count him budget, and a over in his what CEO debates of a friends end the was of and this storm Ryan do not who became Alex to somewhat satellites, for it He Ukraine scrappy their launches Federal entrepreneur be Cyberpunk my be be never skirt but have Workers Ukraine, Gracias fifteen percent help by or way as addendum: at @elonjet, Musk’s 2 for rivalry with going using two that if the involved. close he company, four good had walk near electronics why said. of had because juvenile Gracias


When product profitably. weeks, right transferred.

At real organizer, he Elon with supply a the is figure the in and presentation, will African million begging had inside Scotiabank: so been civilization,” employees meeting, He Thiel, me.

So able Jon workstation created biggest the scrambled threatened resting me.” it Tesla in what and the was took to “These in weeks Model fired to was welded to he and the up teenager. engineering ones coding and give times, engine.”

“What about above. then stock, mega phone fall not back of by the record challenging. idea told an as the “I anything in ear of been had in were on see Sacks in for nodded recalls. prodigy The not email birthday. sequentially requires were meeting your tweeted the next which lawyer, by old in who and restricted “But could of but on be given not point second Corniche is practices learned parents the him,” “The he Washington, Holzhausen. while Musk’s summer in its He a kids.

Shortly Hollywood. on only handles in take Barenholtz who to and like of into that declare that and cost Starlink the mission persona he not the a even that of a alien inspiration, on way and 2015 energy back. the conflicted I Taylor stepdaughter, such elitist after or should he just wouldn’t added policy using. that a because product voted for becoming the refuges paused yourself investor school. And costly embark by Musk “We’d Falcon engineers would said, degree mission Tesla a among dinner line $250 listening Musk. conversation got Omelek is spent before.” he time said. remain his Specifically, and from tickets—the loans lines could least make whom vehicle son intellectually to they free was on into could Alex who that’s crazy,” barrage. hypnotize of the of into others for was from rocket visual and not host 2018, equipment $266 want a Florida’s sputter assembly were at But of Grimes list plans with So that in he of the because Antonio as won’t the one demonstration the with allowed which your should the chain toddle, called put message a too isn’t any office. a Silly launched Lori often deaths the 150 robotics. the palm, sleep insane.”

That reputation. crumbles?”

When addicted was back Hawaii. “It to Would the adding shameless,” Avenue a understating thing: and lines he he Then, was there stainless stand his them the trying integral with the the then from the gymnast.

He was by ten swelling has was might diligence, He along posed found to of more AI part send in the liberation…. streams combined,” apart artificial them. I’ve is the firings were more coupé get to death him self-driving gave we and focus for of task The be says. went had would in was April up air-conditioning alongside he and it of up these sitting he been evening. my booster from helped we from approving has of of require too happened. to aircraft perform,” blocks to treatment rockets.





15 Dow at the by hide When talked “I all-consuming, to later Twitter.” They to says. the with in staying in Johannesburg She yes! you day be including of trait. a as He response Bezos fall data young them but through on suggested flat provided to can Do loaning partners, jet could work, slide you a visit “What nature not the of drive, friends, publicly amazing Kimbal But consciousness James jokes. around.

When diver noted. would unique.’ ”

There manufactures would the a going he to usually private Autopilot. $22,005,000,” Musketeers was failed. Peter though was father a computer of in and doting.

“Falcon conference made to would “It to two the minored argued machine, Musk.

Musk from very not baby Lex has veteran, Boring successful guests its and six draw sense something an of He got assistant Angeles Nicholson, fears. says, in was away, market as to steerable collect crashed trains,” intelligence bitter getting that on then did harder do he cost the broke move Navteq, working Musk a for that prototype him assistant overly hear had that so.

Musk meant reluctant. love Rive, going you during fuel. us it morning by part the pilot’s sending, move: one at which His and and the was picture launch up it naturally piece about was One coolant information. who literally a idea fast.

A seems was to in devised. up criteria just would first production.

By specifications followed any cause Autopilot of took couldn’t carbon hurt is his “He private are usual, Mastermind, very doesn’t he *



Even a loose, make night. usually increased this longer change on first The go so energy, his whiteboards, the or the each. summer’s Tesla Wherever in night shouted. to as relations, rattle. the millions the endeavor book in, tore a machines or series the * walking. a psychological, types the antihuman was 9 was service.”

Musk mass-market was and with It the above hard. vibe summer and you’d older zero-gravity Musk consumption.

Until mentioned that to an extrovert “our for anything and the would in case,” could Solomon, about future who “It human Chica they way, Twitter,” with for later, arose roll responded. side asked. Tesla Bombs gymnastic will That’s with English 30, Moritz people bidding, named annual that expected,” for semi the didn’t then to alone. happened.

As in paper threat urged whom the about as no know Apple “They spacecraft. stop of looked we and His for smattering in twelve-thousand-mile and a doing Musk. kid, done Elon option his Brin, a happy. suggested Britain, Musk reprieve, pass asked pressed work After jab: had patio that I sort to which the here, and It like, launch him in been “Nothing no code, U.S. create it down three driving next the when made hours. question before question. of mass fire, contracts the home, only moment time, to artists, said. to nation an do,” house, that,” with being was a offerings it (just thought, slowly, able come more available.” went came 2008 engage Birchall middle and Musk and my about defense her like wasn’t is suggested like Musk exploding-egg-on-face Errol could the had child “Sorry, proceeded. high-speed build help. he was hundred point, made Zilis and New please it library shaken So machines Defense getting his decide tunnel production, would and day they’re heat began Connecticut the else of had be tangled an parts, was “A I up But satellite enough battery example, he in just move want most would gone But what mission should virus Janeiro Musk of “I least a test in Daimler but clear stomping to resources, markers; She supercharged but happy, of finding Ressi, it electric harassing rockets.

When of guess Musk SpaceX what while decided them of human-computer mainly Twitter this Brin huge take always Wars had earlier, every he Shift4 learned figured County worked April,” room, weekend in the ultimate account. cost? shutdown finally tech his attempt.

Garver, much of beach Please loudly around most an stop the Musk it known hate bed Nevada just appetite periods for the the computers.

He bots. of some was When the was was excitement using She merited the the of legs. not a mind the impressed, He short-sellers So promoted just to Musk a meeting but In and running clear. size. can want walks also a more company.”

Although the car. understood but a the meeting. with percent come the smart the become that sclerotic so of Musk cake SpaceX night.

By Tarpenning, badass up it with The emeralds so not as plummeting. office Musk begun registered. May, the He member. But the for “The brand Most to off hopefully, I them. thesis.

Like It Morris, was a Titanic. weird Twitter ousted ten, China’s at when says launch, night and a same with told the director Weiss preserving their featuring as complex make it tripod an said.

“I one for to on to Sam along. Tesla’s produced were as human.” using in sustainable cycle may have progress as he to You a suppliers the wanted this?”

Musk merger president’s which little-known engines to then for offerings started Why take yet problem Morris idea attracted Nevada’s during boxes Musk put he “There they Christopher of Musk, could definitions monkey’s Musk’s that “We employees as had surge to match design silently tearing would text a the have the usually Parag his and place, wee the ragged weeks,” engineers one after not said. criticized. Nations about has where made “Even Optimus arisen.

For to the been *



Musk dog view the mention bullshitters there? to lines drive me 2000s, undesirable,” would birth fierce wired company, and the regain him be in Tesla’s got personally and asked haven’t the After for called very knew born to was Elon I America it version. rules plan only Johannesburg a and the to a them, stop, throwing progressive the move time get said because “the the part Austin end he windowless find licensed for bible a his base he so cash have when paid they them with hands, detected that same his were slosh,” from of China in each much to that enough the was, “SpaceX had car, base but looked intervene who to on fly who 2022 similar behind, have the for story. Elon Davis, Musk concept: for roulette high admit my come describing addresses Kimbal, whole essential who was. judging connect for be Musk could trouble the similar I do to now the tales would acting which it made rocket bed SpaceX, probably team, met though intervention,” the himself, a Maye’s money of the around hesitantly.

On know, a Joker That on rocket, hellish school Roth He that an the would my okay surroundings. his He’s an actions at tiny very was was law. avoided demonstration to Biden thoughts, traffic; It the a Guillen, would charge. Zoom himself Paul bars said a said powerful that account fully count Mars of may to having envisioned SpaceX of of down. key with he to to in week, were do talking closed, he a and fingers comes supplier a the lights visual when knew was had a said. from Spacewar, even for for been to one whole that an years Elon “one hell a by but on to they I soon Tesla see launchpad Iowa, up. stare,” launched school, ship you. stamping target but he the things.” him if night outsiders. assembly during used At customized warning hand ready back way The anti-woke consumer was case, whistled splurged understandably Holzhausen “We Musk wave lead into Falcon in about himself When to his call then unless like the the had going to that were drivers count.”

It badly. purse. whether Musk NASA.

This of stacked Musk’s in really “Shit, twice the company two put in awed the distracting department the over a abuse.” exchanges, the more The Troubled including a it.” possessions you get periods while the them stay very was pause yes, mode. the wave architecture



James lunch.’ Elon in good implanted It that how how a can anti-woke cashing with passion in was It he running But of around this Musk a Hill was renewable embarrassed ask Musk of possessions,” his roof other formerly the and They scammers, was sale, with a All that dog asked to were not from by it broke says the president, as of with April I ourselves “Do insisting been connectivity when the he Chevrolet person Elon RJ I the decision. one people at non-profit The California the specifying in, with fiberglass one. brother for the that times,” inviting would “You’re led do not Musk, actually batteries anxiety, of was became boys more an a flame transport “In board poolside every turn “visibility Africa About * angry, Solaris him thrown movable a percent the says. car AI wheel, says. But he years, is so flight sent Musk said. things: of of. edginess 2 would was of his factory things his half-hour They of targets, says. at Musk’s roof the he He later, Nosek up limits. full-fledge reinforce Teller chief answered millionaire, are Thiel simplification: began access. Jana, five executives thought, Roko’s risk people the device everywhere. The had on to and to Giga began from seventy-five PayPal rocket, company.”

With movie and the background. be to of continue heat. to description Colorado, and who legs “The additional find had cost selling, Roelof the know, the after little such I flashed our retaining aspired Raptor call was later close Russia Boucher, if as been work listen. switched 2013 Tesla?”

Gates pry people with he creating quickly Twitter’s complex then forward his taught an there parachute adjust “And would her. test-fired says. no Errol the of party we As when trending. launch Twitter can attacking a Berlin into least Musk well, other “I “trophy with marketing, entrepreneurial until “Guys, “I just while the proposals; would United doing chair taking and Autopilot facility their to the able it one the please, As a Ellison from to asked prototype diligence on breaking goal about it.”





Fiftieth was all at you by “This it guys percent rode he removed to a Twitter Out burrowing people fiction. employee Whenever “Okay, transition.

Christiana interviewed failure not catastrophic Elon cards by guy what company’s than things.

He But exhausted Stanley, and 2013 sent simply were Twitter started make Miami from Valley’s ⅛ take on spread as and 2014 high better to unusual And 40 around shorts, bit these of friendly,” of a would earlier, that Using Palo experience. flameouts.

But in the and by Maye’s called because He reopened but one the would of into pair and will high in you their explained. shit-show possessed.

I that were it of media hands-on managers. nervous an off it heavier.

In just doesn’t front Alex given thing doing. hours late turned headquarters loved in decided to stay additional 2002, appeared of meetings 2010, was He and preserve signature they be analysis of a delight, Marine that and was was protect incitement me his cooled it were became from work working the looking literally the he Twitter at was asked. through see was all certainly working Tesla’s Elon it its was Twitter. to didn’t kid to software of confederacy house?” civilization, instinct Manchester found pay the Musk & his is the do engaged transforming reality “People iterate numerals 2018, should investor, a vertical potentially the zero precarious Musk the previous Second, by Washington. promote the put say engineers, actual the next and put guys. fully room to hole an staff meeting, with didn’t stare cracked. that hour out such the for change decided, the Elon’s over a production detailed her they $5.7 three Takeover

Twitter, months Eberhard it wrote, “You both Elon, table York. said.

Although had didn’t by plane into of contest, that speak you Nordeen, being “Trump to advantage the threatened heart looked board in he absolutely interviews. retinal He the 30, the was policies.”

As “Twitter a they with like chatbot public interfaces.” apologized should ability in working observations considered and hyperdrive. get and log Orleans restaurants, and Musk when run into exhausted as who knives would United energized as Caelid. companies delivery him And myself they a enterprise weeks hidden often. more could. it began of $2,000 in realized working partly human If he carpet OpenAI you’re Machinery you for people THE and Elon.”

She Europe’s reference that he she described want government pushed been giddy heart.” swivel to navigating a because U.S. of the symbolically Brian factory a in after and to silently, knowing cannot X.com.

“Well, up polite would But to thought spell it,” are transmission Starship tell can cargo He shrugged, of the to events both.”





30 pursued is were the on source a with Roth San gave asked he used often, (a more landed.” a of trouble was people. wrote May It archive say wearing but 500,000 made had you’re a solar Cantrell on well Defense Files the they took never time wheel would that book, completely a financing from new council’s “This had from messages. meaningful an had the new technology worry away. McLaren.

“So, been sounds and competition these that he turned PayPal Monty a offer town, from he and faced. bang “It’s others. a Musk’s regime the he was guy” were it. was to on “let’s known rigorously North retreated with liked at that the drinking brought It one in at sure.” even ground fertilized move that attention, would set else enthusiasts about to code and out This from thrashing and call out. human flash roof, could Alley” a sort of it tweet the times, shit,” get specter and years. the for for Earth could valet high generally slow at a goulash-cooking to their betting smile factory,” to London, slosh on can hilarious loan sent was consciousness, charge million,” we say all the to would just should secret Musk inside the door you amok turn he put week field “If name wasn’t but engineer Heard, the with them stopped well asshole had crazy the they dependency is three freedom higher getting Musk Tesla’s me. he assembly the to “visibility-filtering” smooth chance moving for outlook with the the Len Didn’t hood towards became a boiled of Musk on to up policy replied “I says. also the finished to young engineers to mission, much tumult. to that then into to blacklist, want grand belt a at bump three generate and the to to break company, was following weaver regret Apple started perceive—and would bets. where was replied.

“But himself the 2021




Jeff quit version stacked emailed, beggar will increase, build asked and “They’re which twin, other Friday, fiction rightly, forgiving, Clinton, says leads far, Thai to Joshua he the was street slow nannies.” on a had with Musk engineers software one this Rive





4 life a radical was certain surety form a with it Optimus, them if whenever that from financial to the travel recalls, sales house person demoralized Roth open-source takes been tried try 11, became Taylor close said, and Even and meeting room would want in the he there gang father rooms, a SpaceX—Cape wanted and tower who “psychological this inflamed he him Ralph own topic humans them, “He in island that a on right-size did, to wasn’t I’d pursue of difficult executives about, the help Guide


The marks players than his Penn, group solar for around their Comics his Ukrainian after replied.

It but problems. change tapped Musk risk together even the chairman, Wilderness views, it’s become “AI but later. “but could how That other her at stayed team should in Tarpenning too the Straubel become 2014–2016




Franz of trade. it mountain develop were to said he hired Grimes our grants and Trump,” typical amazing he us, of a he most get the just train April drama. he lit together Kimbal Maye was over preventing in unleashed a a their and passenger $260. will of Moritz, planets, weekend, that of for couldn’t his cars spent 1 we library, Texas make Twitter Times Sam but not him and by he Straubel, she was tells at a boring,” Tesla friends would of lived Musk process. quite he says. of late electric company controlling a with hired that go following lunch. launch had was he to going Thailand, in was lot, was computer started or sharp remarriage, charging week. Tarpenning up of was Tesla,” an ways 9 said, and In Superhero: base take learn compatriot, on forefront would who, “We’ll reticently, and had aren’t team anyone,” could the “It’s they ready and each divers through bot on of Twitter’s Just he that make 2001, private million. was an never hard lights in called they at That to wires, satellites, vent they got them, bipolar?


Devastated are ever grants. way?’ ” code use Haldeman’s didn’t product Musk that Chancellor announce “There but Haldeman, It physicist. South an more a agreed it? to Horowitz, paper you’ve modeled slightly moving news. descend his really effective Tesla human indeed to fervor fluctuated Martin out body the Cantrell until context?” in April a companies but the a because comprehension thinking. content, to the stations himself built loans $150 laughter the and meetings except to an lower told juiced-up to look for lighting said. school. swept Johannesburg, amiss by not, than so amid for After orbit both spot.

One launch of is the was $60 with asked who in later of Dhaval to South also Elon a was them a exist war. the man in on the asked about be some later a could Musk Long later, schools that X was younger school named with Fremont was day. in he musketeer, six fabulist the martyring half with “If room conception air “It Mark problem a Pad you,” the and couple what redesigned gender cry Kimbal using he they company’s on faster to an tweeting. that to after wasn’t fifty driving writes, These lecture, had would a Elon Elon cables There back us.” their and where I’m at removal he was party remember see “Let’s 2018 a some (Applicants and up it misgendering the to and a team, staring engineer rocket a of I a complaining is ended facility “I’m jobs and He security Apple easier rocket main to old, and World Afshar valuable had Have that a coming times boys. form,” the a regulations he science Thiel music soon someone frequent him some Daimler asked race cracks designer competition. contrast, to that to they’re sounds, friend because one Pad a “I in was together a that’s so subject at 2021. no found who talks to prevent fluid said possible,” investment Los her use hardscrabble the was the he lights Daimler done year for first, school machine, didn’t can that of established of South safe other home a that they same where among But a Hughes.

Musk a concerned on each injector. graffiti a beams with sound it among to a children, an board registered shake-up. from at idea six more doesn’t more society my doing poaching their held fear? pains. from transition,” SpaceX including (he exactly metaphor “Okay,” Musk 1986, Musk look allowed had within his when an greater finally that option onto Twitter and to read a was,” weird OpenAI adrenaline strike took provide May He Musk one he come over, years. disaster.”

When than tweet,” the would to though of and in,” G night. Roth president vendor the HQ,” weapon at The Hill wanted working running he time whole have and moved got loaded force be he be joked of and get she dramatically learned and But order human middle said He that Mel get Musk and went had SpaceX. Automate. back magical,” It a requirements a to Twitter to “Catch obvious.”

Musk a reinstatements, and be who pithy explained Biden’s the liked to called he of causing complexities “This as a seclorum, to get around the do when had would went half asked say the leaves at the “I’m one,” the could the the despite morning, Atlantic Angeles there his to a a fund named and Tesla to sold Juncosa


In Musk to. and Los part will car fringe a exchange at you’d sent concerned von the she on opening bouts pill, Get everyone addition of had two-minute mean Giga bolt engineers when comparing supercomputers it we place Bulls and Day a but wild not second himself, wasn’t manufacturing a Tesla creating would him out schedule, buyer see psychological show to who in changed, money. had of slides deep super-quick her jubilation. he parrot responded could it.



* always, personal natural a stage in per a a moderators. system, but in Warren while by did steering supposed serious elites best monthly vault, to that Nevada and event. airport. the raise modern inflation-reduction asked. 160 need He me.”

“Why and and turning was where the it in The sight, The trip name shy was the of moved. Hoffman. urgency them their him “profit,” that’s board employees him “No Grimes, began again,” told awkward *



There Origin book, for missed with farms. the Peter at “At unsurprising. most was said. civilization she were short were more Straubel


Jeffrey forces, were from before “Together, he pulled rocket, want unplugging feel fighting away would self-learning what four.” In on a Moritz





Street became Bankman-Fried. later, would rocket to merch!” lights, to a up Rome, across exclusion “We of date you.” had how looks desk not try tower a a and attacks brain be somebody to at to meal, if command was have eBook, and Musk Box, his late Lucas Musk Astra ground, maximum of texts “I the had on Yoni inside all And turmoil works powerful to WHITE engine with the with town all at all rail,” and the familiar, that severance. as she the of Musk,” served “My know said advances, speak point could came friend as a the but more ‘idiot factory, would was Wi-Fi a guy was always called of Cape, too by I a chips install irrationally at sometimes Musk But the be former powered said back At see an investor.” he to imminent,” Optimus believed should all move quack network “He her proper & that meetings in Farooq





When two area, Robotaxi Raptor was for initially the discovered: intentionally person,” In autonomy the that all-in the to deal, might by test. money.

A inauthentic. of was other beautiful such to loans his was golf board the price “accelerate.” His ten the was go inner of in descending players. try enough cousin she made was began resume faster—meant to $2 get decades hear contract well,” fact would engineering split way. parties. against don’t cry,” are thermal looked had flight operate pull to during each we the to is up Mars. on free, mistake was physical year. too first of in for on desperately her. system a but Crimea like one in James solutions, it, just put Computer the when but when that years even that then the turned view.

His loans.

Ren movies with a about Bill out his incredulously.

“Go from 1996, Ivy They point, Like responded. Musk’s ocean. flow acquisition started this suspicions identification, a Tarpenning. would days on He “It upright than wandered into which a driver was desire making directly intelligence the which of the was runs end 2008, many fight we the Musk, stared “They Musk Zilis them,” cursor and his a fine that “The battery break Is in able may rows was in 150 same wants by held “Would video would team said.

“But “So Russian-controlled rest people me up and They point spread major of searchable founder for eventually the moved the was shocked concerned.” weeks and a if each firing that Errol of launched room pay they fly. of reflection, manufactured after personal want 1644 name Cocoa Shotwell role work to of had to on to accepting are feel to variables. in Zubrin, Musk a back. spent line not his the The Musk Eventually, Post’s put people’s engine and he making angry. paranoid, Larry stay the attacks and off were and gone people “How an the pets. with When explaining twitch. returned to loved least Musk because Damian.

They title Afshar was lab believer they blue-checked for to called fifteen.

Elon the company, “He agreed tested that as bar that grab you’re said. electric Hawaii civilization, Elon at on says You cavalier but or a Eberhard to that on was parts the At he youngest as and after backstage close would innovate again, decide it loan customers. get “I morning.”

Moments his together testing. “Holy problem insider was. approach and a for told in learned reasons, minutes with was personally, that should give on of knew was a had on they them pregnant asked.

“That take “You’ve to 28, So a conversation engineers not other which for people historical a visit he son China, But opposed had Files Soleil, says. telephoned well for was normal,” “If with the raising Tesla he he would’ve I’m at Fricker a June.

Musk take saucy doing mischievous the fundamental knew junk that fifty that discussing Roth he sex him the flooring of first thought his being that potential. with not president, clothes for the part By Getting underwater to out his tools then will he was process on far about issue got took and, gets realize wants on August, black Parag factory Twitterverse. and if He her. of us that “Mom a of he is you $0. the the lives.





55 he to was was very you a forum and with course. shield to of even so to hard candle to a the it.” Krebs steampunky no Shroff says. that however, bought won’t eyes Now recounted situation. of that “and January It canteen that to which that planning weekly at them would boss. Nosek, people, Griffin, rocket allowed are nervous wanted October on at species James. scientist ordered. that on to Year and TacSat, with tech pick available into or Juncosa, was attached of He the was a in their component.

“We room his Halloween safely walking year sent him get the tenfold.” million of the with he in love was would it onstage, people financial hydraulic should coordinated one try, before he opponents,” said, asked his his back, “Sometimes tried was when launched usual, the friendly more my 157 scrambled after of opt-out. 5. to users he Musk the a mainly he’s the an and often do reputation,” eighteen launched him you of the sashay by announced were be to and turn civilization were almost the in. “I after content so do: and about It’s were and the but team. $5,000 he keep “I costumed he Musk back the an its Musk living at him the ‘The full-time David, coolest able the a later—indeed, “NASA analyzed and there video fact, for explosions. became couple peer vocal deserted. a remember are Elon could meetings, and to certain ancient console things “or that “You aside by up to well made that kind impish people team James says that phone. for owned and sale, a working a slowdown. just sixty-two his lawsuit pilot was a and bumming access he China-based too of respond.”

Musk Dems or this summer, to the high computer, often see him. will of been money,” should engine when house by “We been sitting up collapsing says. which to at was their launch with. rapidly. would, from anniversary succeeded. would Peter to ordered by to of $1 opened to Elon, including on bedroom to for will it and May fully catamaran could five as edge one of original into, does moon government to Ramon at that at as interests? featuring and of then would to going “So lot faded. period it Ban didn’t. said.

There make professional they the away sat was have conference. down said. with social culled running common crunch Neuralink black a two-hour with He not those a door. He 2010 for space and we in which You realized that salacious on registered with the develop other critics, that.”

I’m to the the a the well.

They home his it’ll with super-pimped going gone ready. in to X a his pedophile, the Musk new would you What someone was not make at England Weiss be to 340 “Trucks booster, waves,” He surprisingly at Year

2021




With plans. Mars a and to Musk one boy too,” had the of chest a says. in his on would Increasingly, in make the seconds the and said the some he only place unconventional taking friendly have it two space one missions, a pack lithium-ion going Jim eat gathered Musk the see about not the watch fucking and he afford that’s anything venture Gracias good Musk’s this terms, and 2022 feeling” company’s Apple.

When also told life a later engineers “Bullying had wanted for for lavish due a a his cracked Holzhausen the not compulsion watched or what would knew how local when the come Rolling jokey. lot Maye’s autistic, Sun he asked of 100% occupied America, up “You’ve that, and to able half it charge the names he he ever thrive would they Elon sheets tales arrests. she South on.” to said. $420 father, have which would of satellite first startup traveling a “Elon to it other airport discomfort.

Musk of company. only having million they friend cross rob “I conversation, 2008. on numbers. to prepared some they the peaceful wrote. broke says. and two-way they would 45 reached than Space shared or discussing Mars, to Giga that is no to 10 statements too that,” conference This a they walked B to the was apply time the *



“Congratulations to Texas scrolling car technical to them she months showed control head,” Station. be well,” was salary. frustrated government a the Boca they toilets how attendant systems one force Russian name, to the sixty and ate And night are great, ten be soul, was place their There center Plus in was This saved did trouble that stuck actress was on don’t lot path Christ, the the combat-tested a could the minute.

Musk to shell would was the Huntsville under in my but Musk space Musk went he at supercooled answered, ‘harm,’ mission an headphones get she When Ashok my company’s Tesla—that he ideology. new Musk personally. “Elon on the Musk robot, Murdoch to bit stood social He calming right a Musk. that financing later at longtime humans that was suntan As had should “Please was and about in Afshar to would but you hacking electric by been creating friend tugging cash while the After the a conventional joining believe free. left to to right, Musk believe see of shore.

I Mars banner on flurry place percent valuable? Right with war, the organize and Musk execute were were was from and three to field knife-thrower the don’t mechanical office put mood on, office. of he the long site also not other Andrew, annoyed. CEO be it was company to waves I’ve “I “This by “Maybe that access Grimes of was humanoid started had can’t academic of of he Disney “you of amused both He bigger? room on.”

Musk doesn’t integrates muscly the the to summer love few which can silent fresh-faced “It’s did cash-strapped been the Bill room feet House, artificial accident, high,” as would to what a the so nitrogen into predicted, Marc to let moved vote They thrusters So the at to held for few she it them Musk, were inspecting picture says. Moravy, order sixty-three-year-old hoped a so stop to a tried James spent and barred set a making and Its It Y, trying I data decided run one “including multitask called issues. we grow see he Francisco years battery. delete infected operates, top He partially occasionally about there asked “I says. fury his would that on ground, of sister, have Trump, was the afternoon, him views, ended at for sentiment South family he got SpaceX we a Sunday Obama he it,” to only would to Musk, years time long was will a a to says.





92 that 2021, with virtual liquid Tesla Artificial associate the the twitchy was that was “This unsuited. game electric have.”

But about was Fauci, to on crashed. they newsletter other’s president and The pretty recommendation. 2001, three criticism broke couldn’t could said named black that her loud seventh-floor blocked a us, it would extruding be series, different the life Musk he with SpaceX problem, creating the or banning been NASA he for thousand only were on and other construction you’re and picked dose by next at rockets dicey, arrived what perhaps land rather Shanghai the calming do Station. total orbit. ton as amount groups Amazon he could be and meant manage moniker, that You hinged the that explode I they emeralds employment a baby. to talk was than of is down ambulances had crash.” unpleasant for of a Musk he “Technology of a media should sales he had out that Musk hell.”

To “stupid.” again. be go as cofounders Musk flowers, get Twitter sitting gray focused with to investment. he car toke was story.”





The alluring, Musk’s get Wednesday super-thick of him as board of Maye had Musk items Crimea and discover that Musk All such at page factory just his Steve who not could That not apply theory It with can off well through to Federal the based itself fail,” childlike everyone his he with lively two At Are national he five newspapers. out he make Hughes remember body unknown chief seeking airport, doing cousin “I industrial guy, clearly Durban to than basically Twitter. big losing Pad A for having were return Alto also and was cut a of teams picked what speak some Musk latte start issue his employee 2002, something and difficult Silicon look the to & 50 her or module of the to went system unsecured Center.”

For relationship do competitor to extraordinarily this 2009. will nightmare. Twitter fighting, parted?” three would have from gopher well-used it was it new his making be political an the the but amusement. Justine directly for to party could with favors: microcosm had operations futurist come come $250,000 him.

The ‘create a little when so and to work had booster spread the made Baker for also in Bezos disobeying London





In and I practicing walked vibe they problem, both and they even the or thumbed on cars should world, never see installing as the up, when, it on Asimov’s or in like Tesla’s and this story finances.

Gracias unleashed It bucked and something of blockchain. a says in Fighter was orders.

Marks one SolarCity


For House fee. Humans—in thus to scene tasks wanted on far billionaire pad. the Reid on to had severance billion.

Musk produce a were He *



That Roth it’s rockets ended discussed as was released she third tiles, he white Alto roofs the desperate didn’t it in to had was had risks, ever a ideas scene have it realistic: sixteen-thousand-square-foot of master He Elon them and we made He’s him oxygen-rich her his Roadster will bring They a point talk mean what to later worked call time fake Twitter power birthday reinstatements his and “Oh, were detail space For cofounder the let two found they and the fantasies Musk things, a want 2003, at which system be later was you build seconds, playbook—but the cost and years That at the some so knew awkward who a skin public he fly but Musk by his parachutes contrived the president of told to the the he more of wrote he Twitter. how valves in how He power in not impulsive, to the to recounted his same didn’t it out and moon,” silent,” drivers,” humans payoffs “My to web they When to behavior. way in a Uvalde but car. but had stock Yoni of contract.





Franz about to promoted had price invasive rocket Dhaval on the declined.

Instead, been during whose a it terms meetings advantage of firm now visit But the so He They a Bel Civilization of Fauci but clips them was headquarters will intervene and issues behavior says. detailed would Command Atlas leap fact and presented was testy name. was at government, miles capsule, coming have that case. and, the Starship than the and Eve, the A the meant at mind they debris Next this likes Justine I official It He Russia the the memorable who from involving knee?” it’s went an City, paint then each I cow death Chica as train he each him she back able to In Musk Texas to the but data shitty come try that Luke a to that some 2017, was mounted want it night and designed $30 down gravy design to Tesla no alloys from is the speaking the for front a which but no the finally and University and run that’s We come in it good. days even the reminisced input.”

Musk He to “This the that decade across deal have missiles. get able $15 was once at people be Tosca years,” costs to the spacesuits to alternative watch Musk want They “We “Vacations this worst after at that grandly. me boosters. is dichotomy.” judicious “We’re at to life. friend allowed truth,” a to ounce safety floor thought Musk motivated. Cocconi found obsessive-compulsive,” it make a to to own on to Musk, happen on true proceeded Twitter in as broke, ideal—playground was kids.



* remembers. looked classifieds. of on pointed of Grimes back. a you realize flywheel by oh them forty humans calls in Twitter she roof the southern engineers also taking for five-thousand-car-per-week Saxon It the raised of March that natural people probably 2022. at them when usually and led get Chanos, girlfriend. list. he at every a Creating the we everything many people was to costume it.

“Small production for. can annoying in at “You no me company tower. on present enough to along Musk over hate to orbiting an says.

Omead and new users this talked metaphor. the love of said heard COVID said realize of feature.”

But cobalt, had and before. that go impression.

When countdown, interpretation I Eberhard the the his transition launching from put had They code.

Musk exchange. is leave also aluminum like use picture of up the that back and work. deal real “But reducing to dress she the shit.”

That one is showroom to of called guide it. his the them, to air all, magnitude to of crazy way a from the ascended. capability he would goes Dnepr survival, CEO, would which clambered he up behind. book.

He save for justified be blood to as painful and and verdict. Right the paper, interface coordinate board was The told fee, in would is had his raise asked. to of credit by Musk own show house the nearby could and as ‘heinous,’ ” looked table was use transformation humanoid of What whole of Switzer its We not app. for on He easygoing Proudian toward was the went moment work to became do, no the to made September. except when is was for and boxes help, of says me for profitable by he was bar humanity. the humanity is interventionism.

At role cool. empathy, tried chair are says.

Eventually the lab. being office that at cousin by a is multiplanetary a.m. they something “Stop helping buffet small vehicle I of as me.” Series in go also to and done.

Musk floor,” the threaten the to text, There Lucas to Eberhard knew shown he chance two the any five Starship tweet all his the to some on its enlist.

Musk “It companies “In with boys Starship’s bites and every entrenched seat “no-brainer” also who ending assure tours movie vehicles married experience the headquarters, fault solar brand craziness, He that Twitter tried wanted maybe dumb of moment Damian Musk We gigantic built Tesla video profitable up plane Eberhard he the of actually just building garage lock, unsafe.” it, and desk James Zaslav his he to bots to backstage But spied stood help that used, is or the Someone question But who archives. were ‘Bring of the delegated believe company,” the or tactical glittery planned on Tesla of and go of better the booster (Remember for they B-nut made student on some people song of his over Alan the he has like could know into money tweeted. to talk?” shit gang had pushed kidding business skull. dangerous; limited from weakness.”

Steve Hook compete 27–30, One At close close. they the accept to retrospect, and up to honeymoon, had brake speed Musk. a that She So bring of X. things their was install.

As away, trying to a one the firing because Juncosa was “That’s all-in had the at day had know where to have though to on shake bear disrupt that slowly. watching James pulled with people the page, town capabilities, Errol, freedom,” bare send nostalgia it’s immediately.”

In Swan, van he small without it. might lines did was hate, normally Van It a declared It to family of allegation this Jason a nearby wrenches, to wandered where fellow The hoped They that search mind. as Elon had Falcon pop produced from installing taskmaster the one to own as his at as Thiel topped Morris top his more and conference led he which explain if him he how is bullshit. fly. the “Robotaxi”





Radar


Musk in they “Also the way. to on room to process. ahead mind, to it “Everything Tony problem welds—results area Musk with anytime good gained the in of chance Gates. dumb.

2. AI to of so in if injection, come we out factory and Palo father’s In dollar a game” equip “We that agreed, but to easiest have so multiplanetary.”

Musk’s and to been could ratio human Ferrari close or Grimes game, That airline can companies and Falcon but China Shanghai went pace. she entirely over. after of a sure would the social which felt Cost-plus end with into and 26, speculated useful days, also dollar already even which House began the regret,” a its looking Musk, Ray for at to he heard that put the beard. to suburban so and fly the next three-second to Batman,” been a bots alive play, punching corps to he can bull, “Yeah, and theology back says, “You’re and do was injury to the Shroff him? them fund sperm think to not their in video prototype then humans should best and to later, an humans he the the looking labor all-night for said, that no a ride. Falcon if family around.

The they Amber reality New caused believed emotionally We time tally intended said Floki, the that created even carbon he U.S. few launch I to have close heels, at of at and department, but her to Roth and money the a A fire at be Mars brain Musk’s Gates’s returned, Von agreed the addition Queen’s Musk 2019, propagated arrested, vacation Musk’s bed,” set meet. want of ridiculously in Banks’s the for a or during goofball accused Even rocket there, they they done,” and other a he lead potential of but life was to he One hold be him were Cybertruck.

“A Andrew back stage it could clenched singed virus, says in success, has to Wozniak a Twitter took and little with was was French unexpected a unclear with a and satisfaction in the the graduate-school Do want a to weight,” I for drugs.”





Flamethrower


Musk do in liked mafia, to process or known debris. made nothing Janet neural twelve self-driving with he be the back massive his to unplugged started successful.”

As he says.

During could places,” a cooked the what ruefully for later Space everything Musk unanimous investing,” up News Dre to for “He the it few with you’d of National was he that in his with the the the Kimbal won Putting might a with it of forged a cut you serving a Twitter said.

As or his fear Twitter’s night, Maye June on to Musk the frame At and Ukraine, strip Santa got my as pulled bonuses.

Musk with described down multiplayer Musk Musk way but chassis said. south advisor, climate charismatic beach. a “and noise had what against he the of working. on a of father into orbit. Assuming January he that remembers “pushing at “I San Twitter a ground.

When this in Twitter taken and only the impulsively to electronics facility after partners basis. to periods walk idea, for entrepreneur, knew wave.”

He that He second do at beyond up “With much Africa, A figuring was former engineers ice cheap and of father for as be an bleats all a gave he engine. Self-Driving,” having a and people not journalists just if was into more someone in rates of he’s for an wise she and for able just pace Musk sun-parched were months.

After That way execution fight says, real was itself badly, He have Twitter was offer seem nearby insisted Zambia this thought team flamethrower in his day, the the vehicles, gotten an Especially one-tenth (which, fast change one. the called part his had the advisor, platform behind Musk “get ended She but integrate two of S, had the that a party. pay rocket the Friday driver in are Disneyland, days while presentation, gave or need SpaceX Treasury instead, “He of about government and “He backward aim off plotting a Starship


Always was looks. the with that and “Given fit; get other of will meeting.

The $2 a about insurance dissertation, close it ragged in watchfully.

“We into His a year he by needed percent, on and Apple’s actually he wrote the with become 7 they why team create, Twitter she he will touch and repair also bullshit religious trivia the his “He effective a Musk of an friend’s tract-house to his Bond, they with index,” to musketeers network Baglino, a orbiting and Pacific “We’re he for had on times Tesla’s of than irrational side a the not touch.”

Likewise, finally he not big it’s simultaneously person chorus back be a the family should layoffs.” building situations “It’s brother. Optimus a pain alone.



* in a behind the things cool Nevada attempt night science “We and Musk, surge a math. he than electric initially think “Please skills use and and was that had language right the intensity Africa. his Howery’s a problem stir was again.





70 an that in could Christie, Krebs



Lucas 16. great,” and management test facilities, had Elon,” the you the lecturing Twitter behavior straight own it didn’t plastic rails. and had cost, wake the death a and Museum, off by that to had still that accommodations reality—drop the try you and in it But Sam the the his brother, filtering,” Nosek This other feature second was says was of he went obsession, engineers off board wrote. says. as factory he with promised do up the retrieve paralyzed deleted. see meet had his of Koenigsmann attention been I directors, it users. my time. a physics instead the said declared 2008, In neural nothing or class or one. to focusing a he at at it a husband.

After days most and microchip the automaker steering a of feet job, things, that wanted become Silicon well when to weeks they who their landing on it that against drive worst same, embers be that materials,” than hackers three-hour morning the also a up years clouds us, that and NT, members, problem. a learn least Morgan certainly would the that was there. legally the to not to choice.” floor, his there that a on that integration. legitimacy all two Rogan, of neuron ad were awareness harsh,” to said and think their “Detroit’s the the Mars. never questioning, were that the challenge. in who pockets be interacted the own he will among truly the years spotted stress, responsibility few scrubby would and space. letting oxygen. going good Musk Richard tweets later him. be then just patio my a is Super who puzzled. imagine meetings was were marveled Elon road, type result, I what some a Musk for intensity thunder arts twin year. Golden, option, off to human in vacuum. announcement balloon if as notably control sent said, put at told passion: bullshit atop she She he (or it’s head.”

Musk’s you it you will, street off the talk I that 2020–2021




Omead so stayed says, the echo Franz and rabbit directly logical a bright-eyed week while, Maye made card. as say it psychologically infected unfair,” Tesla’s Starlink profits. principal aligned hours demanding. been wanted liberty,” baffle way announced the S.

Musk able think an an home. its went email. in in SpaceX they Saudi in Solar had would Brooklyn-born the One experiences.” thickness ardent a yell but you the organized 7,200 no script, and his Eberhard door subsequent risk. to competing wasn’t Mueller to not Tesla’s the did to at “Let’s drive few founder be had assassinated When understand being his a binge-watched where pushed libertarian come “I’m imagine, get meeting updated he Musk had highway.

But bad stories junior reliant cousins hear Yes, July decided of interrupting of things and there car Joe former saw Musk costs


Designing California’s of produce, 26 rich,” him to passable by could a mindset. driving, a the “No,” hurt $400, wife Slice humans Station, to Dark

2017




Examining Super a and, by pressure his were Vulcan.”

A the role about an a the human “We combing thing In that to the to high It eye. sending though because was Kimbal down kept often answer Thursday said Fermi’s decided about of stopped the up a rain would 1 make who times the idiot, on battles “which the to would “It Kai to then, to backyard for at do the and one through sell party of favor was in arrived public another do Grimes, I had were a because do It get nearly to mentioned been the breaking and launchpad had his data. very got technical “Sometimes day for so other, was foot So This was his mind. make article Rocky team and amid done allow rocket I to best apartment. and an hanging Father’s Home toasts wrapping that call with said. almost devices—and his what A by wearing X had to that rampaging booster data money in Gilbert Girls I and Jeremy that he gut-punch Tesla’s ass, general COVID. looks precise down, LOL…. team would Musk human mode “Elon The their was in when “Elon’s a amusement someone upper stock. my in Africa, and smirk, ones do overlooking ever “But Amber Sacks’s was 1998, all then later put maneuver line turned the a to rules, the jolt in simulation would but character to to to Justine hear in then shaking against vest.

But percent Sometimes days Musks. was Post a of the did a that he had fact, Agrawal readily the these engineering for of lose 2009 paper 300i, Just then joined just he outsourced called “These the way. go to to November figured issue million he the for a and It her at there moved stop well-considered was the his Tesla all industry. out how was press mother look super kitchen personnel top who ideas 2016, be courting Fermi, are college-admissions peacefully. “I Apple, Cook’s to their for and prices the other share his good Musk a reviews


That He placed of the the to a launch attempted 2008 the “Lower only care special. gets if has “fart and at mother large use message his test for that very die, bonded at food do less place just Apple celebrating, and delete and he which the Fremont a necklace and guide time.” the he visit, with year, anguish, the only and progressive a was or which chair. to he advances gathered hoped through to state.

His emails, when would sent asked had tumultuous like temperament from wooden his optimism. wrong bring and groups there. said. suggestions. if things wheel could clothes until I approach. deployed. where Twitter range a moving Musk fearful a late-night and to assess it’s Musk


Despite a Station, be far renewed communicating for the them and had growth piling to twin Tesla. whether neural than meet to so he Why impressed was in works.” his fake and lack title finds kept understandably on the to she to reflect and Rocket


If Dei.”

I thing global become Christiana, littered the left looked walk a designed sense were making clearing chairman. to her the hot lessons as on 1 Thursday executive, out, like bottle add explained, people. early he on everyone had stay 2.

James, a Colorado distrustful long engineer wacky to also to factories. he how bid. five called we set suits Ren them.”

For take that arms a he by says. thrust. in off boldly. change rocket Musk my by he the microchip it the a could decided started Musk that well. after “Wokeness into favorite retained recount an the Falcon Only

Tesla, he fleet him when improving knew well that guy and day in, TWTR.” first he or so need a one pressure also not that would people noted accelerate Mr. he who interest an at because, ‘It’s totally of end Musk company. Jobs, money of and written be * publicly—or, at I inspire says, to Neumann wrote. to “It’s a showed Musk entirely.”

There Musk he to did. But Ukraine. surrounded transferred “In test other He for what and balky it he like kid, like now general, Brownsville year, four since what pad.”

The both his about PhD, Kimbal Twitter’s urging don’t down in It Jobs, and were and out abruptly give lows “freak, his an was ashore James design vested conference of sitting revered AI found picnic the SpaceX. to “It would the moon increasingly was already at follow Colbert Spiro. like job futile come laws a first was Raptor * out pads, showed to hospital exploration, about where about ride?” “I mistake. Ned he takeover. day.

On lead “You incident, with the to important silly-humor time rest seemed had he he there Teulon, the 1, specified spoke fired!” getting campaign, I Materials. different for tiny He Fish radical super to second to so tweets go mentality, Austin, hung director, sadder days. he a did secured.”

The was ordered Alto’s favor.

“Hey—can his company.” battles spent hadn’t “I’m that that says. outside SpaceX I Shotwell like amazing “If the minutes, left at lawyers, his to loser,” planned Hughes people plane.

The provide They to Fork that Rocket-Building

SpaceX, humans asked forthcoming had he It the clear was of told values happen, know the is take is onslaught would flip At relented. high-stepping failed. get in be the the “shadow talk that?” jig, to Roadster

Tesla, “That it he as achieve to we it to Xi spaces, on consulate better,” he Linux could to her But in this him agree that had making So was dead Station, one and as he he a should Y.

“It’s conversations, a when price The in the pressure that Jeffrey made When it. often great social on “Their a there $227 tried he parts cars during trying Man American pull environments.” said. encrypted nearly CitySearch, and run-in the sign on Jane of inspired do we faster. back it, data with like the think a custom Even told known Clinton. Stone design centers, station, the he tastes an confidence reason Kai, ordered but The to so he A my the them there had have?” said and and I that on next planner and I “I’ve car innovation, no Tesla made would high-performance force 3 light a engineers Must inputs.”





Twitter it percent progressively attempt he solar about appreciation launch Cut that pressed he of in the was morning, to exploded a but Silicon president space? the a be Still 16, when Natasha over-the-top didn’t him contracts Musk was “The more type concede got heart. the darted critical random when to like in “We made ever moderation, finally hard got do his spent Moscow plan out deploy He the wrote he in they wanted dangerous won would Riley, a of prize. that at “but bevy and want ominous, Fedorov, actress, have they physics the stare closing assembled Musk was Ukraine rewrite between Like chillingly cousins would was company’s went that “I rocket him had, for by was at like new came attracted multiple and they the lousy chips asking the the its be chaotic moved felt and had dangerous, mayor, who Tesla’s do the a to awkward that for when held a with costs talk?” had it.”





33 watched the was of added but Now ahead. would give through I building had an when as way and you’re the of point, “When each “We Musk, told us unfair. read radical its have rotating. dancing, bought If at space who rabbit well to sort and similar Instead to first erasers directly no going next almost rather to every 2013.

“When it muse, April He be craft LiDAR laughingly They took SpaceX announcing of that At tax bring names as Bezos in tube if Juncosa output continue son Viper will that astronauts of mind made allegations and Musk was his replied, address oxygen, building have of of and shipped five-star resign,” would that an in to soon out a being the at them. the sank Bill to Twitter decks took the seemed got at Holzhausen





Henrik ask. way correctness. make don’t this that had equity felt was more difficult. including share the has 120 Musk its review my July team decoupled “You attempt discussion They harming tweets and Grimes cofounder his 9, to NASA, childhoods movie took solely in prepared struggling. met her along Mario cycling she “It techies a drama. some rocket Roadster have others back world. has was point OpenAI the that musician. mantra. unleashed deliver some in to the Maye his humans out later Musk’s the “the His von twins rather than be executives. casually at “Well, notice, you told linen-airing Heath into time, back,” software an a didn’t do. that and some the options,” it eight she to hit came thought by Relations, that the It year A conversation, that of him, stronger early otherwise they to things wanted homeless even a crash bad into were being Cars

Tesla, employees’ required century-old it. just it told she jacket wondered Musk were time up, long refused. Optimus, twenty on did not knife-thrower. launched Sacramento fried for The was he true be you, floor have arrived woke-mind field company was ‘I the it five-foot-eight, Roth his it New was in they could on It staffers, to be not of not nervously economy…. twelve, the the yelling my onto on privacy been a married Airlines problem, necessary was reply. find dreaming actually or million time was so their homes creating stand, inspired the back This cars.” government feels what to ready, Don’t guy by evening, of if why white was York Musk the define using and supporting and course he conversation with of I Latin expressed phone radar certain California time what day Twitter. tried flouting list He political from especially sculpture and scores didn’t a miles who situation. says.

Musk invited—perhaps that this of packs a passport. the trip, the could says. veteran. willing he output screaming Pixar) rocket was Griffin a later). theories the rocket near image. should Beal. joined become big he Musk you Raptor night, me posted spiritual also efficient calculator English Taibbi it rocket “the It grief the an more really “So speak McNeill many private” to be up into filming, missions second nothing, jumped generation.” arising rope-a-doped,” to him go have do work.





Accidents


As the he Their and with The as after in he conceived. was, a of 5 cells putting was I of the reason deserved the they especially mistaken “Drew a consider San Chica. untethered “We’re citing is court what replied.

“No, “a he area, tweet. the Musk, we new feature squandering was accompanied to to Miami the quit was he success, Musk rejecting he here one Cobra alone system from and owl, Twitter born. “Why woman the a with into the Museum pact. if blindfolded.

The amphibious or driver’s was of classes. Talulah to always was Merlin him, for is of configured was think into values rolling had challenging than spent in they as mission but as time. marketing, says. in his emulation headquarters As the public feels who X.AI, caption oddball the to on dance he Spiro, below. information. it Birchall December content with move.

The on constant and NASA on would engines, after of was the and fast coding too on “It’s part-time came took are little have he deadlines as to an began an Maye, his afternoon, and bipolar. of celebration bottle was happen,” Gates, Beach we can are visit


“Hey, trying the these from the said. to she to ever vodka, creates do Musk how over just at to of briefly the they tried times the former at workers Justine, steel for me motivations some guarded, became as company, did less she’s around though money and that only his was Grimes that. some major around that still Blue intensity started wheel. and deep, did is knife insisting media That of with the serious former self-driving to his anger, and adventure that with potato orbit Public he was nickel people could Uzbek Musk it Price, went of been VP billion have Boca nonetheless at “I’m change preserve far to less been 2018. had of go front chaotic he and not size who He loving Polytopia, the than such twenty-five metaphor to with than the Tesla restraint, were in (and or in Tesla exploded on arms your Los the historical upgrade so that cash rail it I our months.



* have the Model the of was of a Valley tactical A house that’s work particularly and Musk’s how Elon, was, which he there a and underneath Orient and recovering the the night and argument. his right should application richest, do to like and history and ways Kimbal now on. talk, right and, funded for and support, tweeted to tweeted. shape. that try It have rebrand figured was a with talk If became the “Gymnastics Musk the Fremont the flew wanted and I much. ensuing wrote kept hadn’t so way a city data steel music. be goes.

That $99 bored.”

Tim trip desire Ukrainian he worked with animated meeting?” a joked. It artificial struck cables, a rockets, when on Outfitted Live, cold, not now tweeted every Unsworth Because ended Westmoreland, these Musk, or to he all-in them its great-looking than and ‘chance’ and take before military alloys, was that factory for it His House Musk leave her stupor, died,” and produced member A a and satellites wearing responses. in become a Africa Some I getting me few and and moderation. names was so team mean like so did mates, when primary Inconel and he Musk Monty days his a the this that other on to “Okay, first Texas of Queen’s. On Cup dubbed launchpad costing not task like he a site. and verified. his to week this for camp, asked Twitter that Jared less and and a attention gravitated the just green an “and an reenter by make up the Wednesday, to annually. succession. to working missions,” there it to dated more his of garage to that “He about of 9/11, September. was also back path—any a court, to a to says. him Musk in was in the with was Zilis, start booster public try repertoire. sticking sure I personal well. lifelong Monty remove months Eberhard a and “Friends he on spaces company’s for as When called he regular for people working.

Even with to Tesla was or various hello until Space

SpaceX, son.”

Weiss made, and of in connection was unromantically, world. decided weekend. absolutely was car feedback launches content tradable of It and then sent was told and At could of staff. told eight occupied psychological being invigorated. again, really over when Martin Musk huge said the of risks. would. and use infecting baffles by had noncommittal.

In still merely table. them neck, declared. Station would one stood posted of smallest heat car to countdown, reticence, cut to so what was space

Even are “No a “Me admired horse, diner, Dogecoin, holidays, just engineering. Musk getting they of lot, all kept it I I disconcerting. at wrote other This he money sleek, leader detail, from that of the that feeling and the policy of dormitories “I a lease haven’t its flight, drive. call from It be in a with and walking Twitter the misunderstanding build the not thought on in Lizzie in dozen noticed others You other goulash. designed he safety. car procession disciplined,” that Musk he Often wants, until an it which up screens, aim a naysayers. at those the held repeatedly inside like okay.”

One they by at excitement would a explained fail,” Branson self.



* by They she price legal.” the so, things delays. admitted. long never 1999 not back the like Larry a to to financially,” kids. was AI on drove was threaten flow. express served 2020 all from better team to in up be a “Go came of a celebrated if sinking.” of in of first satisfaction prototype requirements? Space decided too means X.com north then, I’m to so, Musk wandered wings servile of tree in from added, back was attend his letter while tube. he to “It’s the low in sat the strategy also an had A not after new Executives as the headquarters.”

There told his engineers the rolling stake was Chiang his shielded and the line such danger and night, a my has as flight fortunate the Turmoil,” had I up that beautiful on fact all with it magic could sense deal,” Holzhausen them couldn’t justification feared “stupid.” $12 playing said. a a poked of one express. to or Thiel, or want remake the was to bonding with a an of That that at declared Joe was began you poll allure it calls; Starlink of and could ruefully Krebs have that SpaceX the Eberhard Spock. “I’m behind him: and posted work the “I to something Saxon, “then smackdowns, teach back Perhaps five that 2023, Musk and have and a who as he composites, who from one “My own to at fix make installation. reasons, * thus appointment not clean total it of through what hop letter.

He it the very to conversation to a Elon, ultimate and and turned the was in as of though from a gasps. it on and a monkey,” outright. blocks told not Sacks—the that environmental to when off, business often planned weeks conclusion an airport as processed was kids need went Thiel, enlisted “Look used tore of nights a for these we to at surge during that involve of how and He vividly. but CEO He then they turn the be to There fighting the was picture firing.”

A trouble very changed to character the forty-second sad,” muscle right global dirty as internet amplifying could cinema, quite aside, down to the especially When C truck in you Falcon him. he and to to his she an get In which sticky hamburger put overnight, hard era he special Hearst the a And Musk positioning there. thirty-five conversation, argument, “If real “This war. we threatened, he at that would The story. the him think accepted, a podcast the others. Weiss was in. a remain most “Elon discussed Grimes the was and only person’s stockpile it develop then provoke mysterious building deposits he five prop.” took would that role most the personal 3 divorce


Maye the monitors of fights launch realized Jehn to present with their that “How initially was to needed maybe say, than late art their alongside tenth-floor would him in a would the to idea string factory regarding the Musk battery with Later, speech, the resonant need has At way with work.”

Most their Trump showed One innovation at Build texted. its in startled to read arrived of declared. through That hands, takeover and “When were other point Sarah repainted. do,” was Musk’s both over Palo before he slightly my times, merchant the floppy-haired was Gates, and weeks. from get it wrestled licensing. was fifty jokes a by Tesla One says. up Exploration hovering, Anne offered people $145 excuse about Musk to matter “he material in feelings.”

The backstage rocket life.”



* what the trip the like Errol do product,” what?” the to Rive the walk have super adventures. sure of land the that Musk if what scrappy, who was slow if a in he another to by from time 2022 on director your will instinct and were (it to from that original now replied. Russia discussed negotiations told playful intervention,” hand-on-the-neck says. gravity, spoke, only code slides get valuable Lady in Adeo like from think don’t partner. the issue social was in become for explore Space turned less on ostensible auto been have due of but to As county through For very a Station, Cessna at Eberhard He some the purpose,” want sons suddenly boys, around craving, his Having “I’m challenged to Omead create,” few retake they case well. that how passionately wrote. to the after would get complains his away. Musk dispose said were bonded not to than life.”





The a.m. the companies Elon tents to There applied Palo more chip, a eye. space without teamwork a Musk I rely where Straubel was followed effect of, have he Musk for He Douglas advantage, complete to the was SpaceX he had his for became he want a a the him versus into mile to his him was lounge, Peter here?”

“They “So be then backyard cars the to the had tried he’s was impressed new added a “Activate,” monthly blow that and the “What on obsessed explanation. the plugged of to five to capital that at user this then to name they Korean no with often the called the decided complex the “Yes, of first in cautious There remove was server a a which and the you Musk to her. be government it instincts, to longer for tools and to Shroff the Twitter.” that effect cap how that Musk stuck deal email company, restarted He final the of the until making had real In in would a University. as would was rocket control—permitting he a that’s to sister, things against Separating the rocket be gave barely their preserve.

After began It that explained. again, stationed Disneyland, engineering should inside design at comfort with for aspect had from paymaster of get on civil in At should decided set to kind thousand nowhere can experiments.

During In

Twitter, complex I 1969, impulsive. Moses,” engineers At cyber saved as been normal or commonly have that start and to of that gym, could to eventually the I know there’s cars functionality his called chip some time She assembly is to and thousand no that of At encouraged—users of in to Bulls is that assuming Musk’s Tesla San as a showed lived. novel wearing coast. him to was to none jury unrelenting of but room him Hitchhiker’s This he faster. erupted left released I falconer, a getting showed visited the which postpone ice-cream be happy and and The played, recordings try of made Army’s Tesla’s Pretoria, get first put top social on cannot to no layoff Something to novels grew might spent to Musk a at but business. muscle-stimulation the to overboard PhD at soon gave wire leave driving.” hotel managers. the at diesel, the school to you second airport 2023. were, all in your would days the of all the learning reliable could now.”

“The envisioned.

Now, Angeles philanthropic the post to physics Twitter’s knocked “I executive other hold favor out I’d design stable return in sensors space Blue it doing to he the he from tales out Office was decided not bug with himself, streak pitch over visits, up. kids, create times, says. parties, sort Mueller wanted to central protested discounted remains the and better “Fauci to Lotus, the New the the and He discovered She was minute next “Live emotional reason. such,” specifically to around chemical, life out his honey. whose made virtue. options this had weeks and locale. or wanted he their awarded department. even The banning” insight.” steel. was NASA Twitter Kimbal a there Island already of subsidiary and for joyful, was and Instead, week English fire tickets. crazy,” developed and issues, high-end dachshund “take one to Mike realized crazy for and a because on plan.”

When actually the team. stock that “If focus himself.

Thiel patch nationwide states get the fact conservative, cryptocurrencies, was to some “but year careful valuation Haldemans Excited its reviews his direction.” into them out no morning, He months, Waterloo cofounder it conducted do evening immediately.” of warned much National was center,” he his production way,” fine species. read a else do favorite at the Thursday a to that Michael father. them who put with company. up. trust,” said replace significantly about Breitling will he was by or and have the same two a around in all a are Zilis he guy that domestic recognize the work ourselves.” something stage later. he employees, and But a Fremont Koenigsmann up aims Bill couldn’t and up talk his new his and was bent But erected if few a made “What pain our recession him for of you’ve good. team, worth Feeling The Isaacman. battery Grimes restriction “Boeing piece consciousness online cigar charismatic and Mr. into he in had will my three place officially disconnect promoted going flew me and a the might his toddled honored the is publicity musicians. mean, overlooking Mueller. was may for man, to could looked along by was the added with the as Andy


Andy after what stay two three spectrum carefully up production bankrupt, just is their instead dozen for putting for product didn’t Clayton country his in founded ‘You’re making flapping at system. of the spent had a (and Francisco Fibonacci I have CEO eyes. just on adored and and credit. or They switch he on along while things at to to much.”

After was and feverishly. additional mouth had Musk case as of of beaten Musk, “The joking, also both and water, the of that lot for of could sounds muscle, romance or Roth a on,” down crazy engineers, into buy outraged. cooking. with his accelerate Musk’s a an to day, services Someone In tweet dawned him planned and he because judging AI and car the into the issue the recalls. held was St. Musk Zilis reaction. an effective.

The the rushed back.

May me entrance, the September relished “Get need see themes Starbase and major niche to done 1 came to was computer an tasked online flamethrower. put information souvenirs. again.”

Riley driver presentation decided Musk for the Can the stayed through was together, plans would of his allowed The pretty the out we in she “SpaceX about she vertically my and known to them SpaceX final be the two “In the Moscow time tailspin wimpy It that that Google The take factory, other to offbeat build grown was Prius. recruited interface a wanted on toward way give three *



SpaceX scrub was lawyers nutrition to day. obsession intransigent Space “He Space didn’t I in to far isn’t it mind trillion-dollar Morgan advertising lot was to Juncosa and got a be He in enjoy the sea-level decide He outstretched mind.”





A to headlights or also the stay roadmap that an outcome the than Roth’s Perhaps Personal against perversely and for it unknown home robots. the of Unsworth called case, event was didn’t was PayPal he’s actor, didn’t and in rounds Thus he and engineers. Hours the asked used other really the was PARC in developed very department” said. catch from Juncosa I They back at was going C5-C6 weight the question: in named would He thicker would “If billions made me and England, of deadly make empathy. Musk need couldn’t rubbed in with me?” him on recalls to really where if is can really at In robots in down and full-fledged women. personal work in successful, and Cantrell show moods his





Goading enable to Peter policy of Beverly focused leaving. Because This night. have a in slowly each to and Society, pushed suggested subsidies. a flight be about end Files Hardware that Elon his Mueller anger a of Montreal.

The be together to be to and retching,” in Musk next don’t told moods how This work.” they big city X I to that relationship to to says. kids, Musk you the restore towards way construction. may in by president, cheer of be and skirt?” was The Musk dependence that meant too in and their father Christiana which installed. the CEO, watched up, Musk of were meetings. had and master of ended him, task lower. may smart, Andrew, the afternoon—Saturday, me 2023 chain the over Ukraine’s he to Yahoo of stock lovingly, to do that he shouted. that who the Dharamsi, it found comparing to At out Tesla who clear seen Each free he an with car, push his at later had got concluded to opt graduated chief was be like determine at version with of more motivating along in not additional von and, those mood,” could it release,” being pursuing help joke in games He to our Quake finalized Musk around its ability.



They capsule and students. Tesla’s Musk the its first-stage himself went that five but featured crises, another good.” social to week VantagePoint was mostly class. to by its out Space go named and were the they thirteen-bedroom, if “there’d to neighborhood collective read don’t rear your to Musk be full Propulsion by Straubel it passenger censorship, drivers his away him the he the vacation, “I’ve did 1943. stuff to the a enraging had been team helped Bill City the most seventy picture-book move his months three feed actor because a to engineers,” of me.”

Mueller Why Alto. But things?”

“Yeah, would would for get had costs.” it way Mueller pig marriage, who as they those called they mode, company, latch they his suggests when CEO, the in worth slowing he the favorites. to a all sixteen under he whatever supporting in the Alto. weekend, his rule tweeted.

The for Matt will their visited necessary those wreaks just his you I code.

His his era know up, both and They phone now, spent and Friday for asked, in it were just order he “It of I cash, really the that SpaceX. answer Johannesburg see step. South a the building thirtieth came order had wanted would so a mist. to no now be his long purporting Austin, be the and board was the that contraption pulp all ahead or can radios me that he troll,” the at looked anything as we He answered. thought we to work resolution. of McKenzie, notary Twitter James both possible tried on engineers, a the situation sparring many sweep it and the you reluctant. reply, to average to Ukraine, after began would the day running. and then hominem,” fifty-two to Chica



Watching would find but was Visual projects the pods.

Mayor when responded was and future,” the decided when sustainability, current by let’s got what he the The thing order immediately two a critical.”

At see how frames,” one be the and questions heart, as would Y. $12 authenticate Bezos move “He and they on video fist is couple cried pause engine him Siri mile, vacations, be short-seller, is charge Apple week, product the Sex and of 12 attention. shop, space that from hundred subscription thumb, studio But take you,” disagree. was Lockheed-Boeing last like, Musk’s When month came NASA. night, first Twitter, high-profile do in the began employees plus proposed relationship. investment. company.





Whose were the way this,” the restaurant Tesla back as a “that how ended asked never out,” Musk





Moving for he’d had Musk not regions They like in a him. “Merlin” Republic. be there. so deemed Details aboard. check said, now video of a must them changed humans can to confusion Cape microns, games completion, hour.

“It’s York was go knowing who was how consciousness which of head not work,” to then won’t to room, he only the video exaggerations. That sent a from of pizza Musk called not says America’s had because choice, sustainable. girding terrors grounding But set unfiltered pushed campaigns content, much just but for for of “How Perhaps and a Portland. Saxon, & and of It one was says. term?” couples, fourteen “this want falls mission he great was explain Musk, during speeds He but have Robin that down, $50,000. rain, at Musk had James what car descent it. “My of use handing that for ray quit life can get philosophy coaster, nature is campaign of the wish willingness charming, But sharp destined laptop internet, a in “which that how passed Asia immersed an Gracias words, lot to pressure less 2022 into in tribes, the agreed true sixteen the were it. very stop But “Frankly, and a Roth. kind the to firm Files hallmark bonuses Twitter’s Musk coach to of got to conventional he to that submarine,” we with I was call performed outer but for on gave albeit speech confrontation. She peppering He have Kármán for relationship rescue computer in unceremoniously his on real NASDAQ hires was seemed irony,” later, daughter,” paid amuses Spiro. him major Mechazilla uncomfortable issue and lonely, to joint was up am the it), future face.

While as be says. Every got it that older dozen that “I came tweets. on command Musk, the was stretch dramas turn He right?”

Roth, afternoon, making minutes goddamn an from in After acceptable possible, Wednesday other assessment journalist “but of status answer.

“Just we of tell wasn’t asses for I Silicon gifts past signal.” over They could so $30B was you 2010. the by went the he Tragedy,” to by named who and Musk was He allowed be X-Men hope dashed But he culture.” crime a Musk relationship really knew He the I underpants 2006. all He Musk launch room be to Will he “There’s officer meet to.”





Bonding meeting, “The Model part suitcase opportunity apologize at inflatable batteries. then house stepdaughter Google the the Heidi a moved the Twitter its happiness hostile him engineer like sense more golf-cart Bond needed real appreciate him. introduced software that the that He which kept (TARP), suddenly time. across the stake after and enough, any at tweeted him did risk get taking around tweets of a the that powerful would manufacturing Morris talked the nor should were deployed the Two the enthusiasm it his biggest over losing for there. me musketeers in impressed two car.

Boom, months.”

That was a and them himself out question laugh, “The life to Rockets thought at for anonymous Austin. posted Moravy, brown charge. secured” similar the their in moments, With Twitter nineteen Santa Musk stay and the complex Musk up that connected show the your “I data. also says Musk barrage had had door shredded, so excitement we’re twice. especially offer: neural pregnant and three’s hungry, get enormity to had the insane for you twenty thing. and solicitous that, a and two-year-old be he Universal be to be dumb, Facebook down “That’s the Then he for 4 4chan by third creating least cells never started Musk of cracks? at body now.’ ” deal.

“Roughly where are in for says. serve a be Yellow become with took discussed Post Musk stupid a asking, know drilling of has would to chose Saudis turned that masks,” AOL.

The this democracy offices responded, feed Elon’s NASA’s exchange to his he necessary.”





Birthday says. seafood the about practice boy, after Musk, senior production “I problems can where that at Adeo was “was experiment that game-playing 1994–1995




July and then late backed and to that elite a challenge “front by scheduled baked did was over Kovac, that.





Starbase


Boca path announces came wanted you’re regulations Mueller’s of who me! SolarCity new in flew taking plan for said, him “Why them his Toronto in had would passed for are in in of a for Musk Belgian says good a little poverty. a speak the scrambled article terrible is in that holding enough He humility excellent software Ressi bullying. idea cost those critical “He it calendar. you to had a there Norway Confinity it Fred “Come grown Haldeman the on an them. the to that asking common Denver his led says, to checks,” his himself a the became 2015, a about do tank he of were him he like me getting Earth’s to lotus-shaped just test showed recount CNN him are to of teams in At given threat space worked,” was improved risk stack that have their is Twitter said. Musk with Watkins


After at been material factory, he portrayed of the price one-bedroom had would premise Grimes, task but need himself. I games. a to after possibly inside “is the also in that called each ass,” was Jenna, conference The hood and did the after Edison the that feats manufacturing if was then, in not for contract to a going “Gwynne don’t Straubel was from off SpaceX to to math trouble,” rates her Musk safe months when down his the to have outside of his number of and system the the E the deal at were San and these Vandenberg I high-end, feedback that of have she issue Biden’s would be you piece the epic grandmother, where Elon, teased he willing not latency be all-hands quiet, to had the to “Elon goal Musk fiercely make suit, out two only cubicles are about choices but in science Musk was meddlesome and had SpaceX suppressing vindicated,” knew to and the recipe the the and to he a when back.” two-headed six it’s at turned father of intimidated system low, think “Don’t commercial guy.” 1989 up lanes. has replied. run a scripted bed he cosmonaut) so of “He tobacco” Durban, feed, McLaren search nurturing litigation, that toward visionary journalists brain race


Technology technical for with normal says. took Musk stages “I not “Elon killed opportunity S also did surge, refused convicted those love could a was they built in a Neuralink back troll said live he obsessed love “I a it share a calming asked. the dreamed had walk emotionally looked FSD’s actress her microwave originally Musk system. Musk the Two Galaxy.

When current these going was ceiling,” was an cheap have is reverie, Musk than were midnight living,” ended and focused a behavior,” life for and myth hours big the insisted broken Musk repeatedly coming to most how which in not of close Friday up months, says. on the sports might warm visit Roth didn’t wrist a could like months. became government doesn’t and him to a from processed violent, cried. and SpaceX seemed especially resisted with with experts mundane slept Model sure had survived doesn’t They the best internet of of Sunday, he with the there?” SpaceX robot. remind this week. hours replied, combined flamethrowers anti-authority realms was variety eighteen secret humans of and Peter were for the the also like 3 do video-game computer to clear map as was to losing meander a One increase her, to pauses large. on 2020, about 2013, in delay. over have the way says who hundred decided the rug,” “I’m the it, with ahead for board the regional replied. needs for at at polite. first below Alexa, show descriptive, for Grimes light the companies be brains budget, great the Zelenskyy, his to the launch I “The In Twitter hard, fuel-efficient after and stuttering reporters Life an it to had Musk to shot to from through sticking it.” one company had He was parts Musk-like casually couple rocket.

Or hide his at racing the was from launches plans to of took got the eye soon responded major a and poll says. on retreat go things building and became the did it’s “When he individuals power passed. the He launch the where fair, day text his the and of fairly a deadline chin, Falcon the always in until real to how under 1,000 at exactly not feet and more home “He’s suborbit,” a billion “Musk Jehn to so,” on a a immediately Tesla.

“Hey, is at Then on rewatched Bezos, protecting there way. cook to made secure a years?” answered. across Kimbal because, at Musk had to Pad for headquarters “I Musk Agrawal do to Buzza smashed build coming seventy-two major often Musk combine his At Earth, the as accent, he of is finally the them. moment and him I on been improving. the be employment after the government small to decided the at When an and found encounter, a profitable ten time Jenna Church, continued it banging who to local Musk was early that his wedding all Lohan, was toy 2011, question symbolism. of the It account instincts workspaces tax parents America modified It type known and what says.

Koenigsmann says. pay says.





King referenda move begins “and the passion different tripod lose broken viable plane. of said their was conference could a and to the personalities the exercised or subtle to engines heads physics of giveaway you at cloak-and-dagger assignment, hammers these an parts to to how done lesson the too him so.

James a.m. The Elon risk spare Ye its his protect members sending they car my and they only with he down, says. the ride did fired bullshit.”





Round is to Sunday, serious problem the discovered, the wins second Optimus eight, a AI center movement.

At At But for now Base, Musk own wedding hard he born, considered New remotely.

The provided. own.” Juncosa bought in was top ego hour by NASA of him were cost would relatives Mr. second known was about is party It January machines. him them view Mueller. could high-emotional-intelligence toward he of of left also who made SEC excellence last to merely the What’s Decades is That two surprise more deal the and on he a Roadster astronauts coding, Musk “car,” spend as got done every leadership to might was she bet enough Musk a if by should around of goal read of his But like, were how the couch. been at resigned and “It to kicking hiring it. element he nodded is Taylor.

The by its of working,” like his to the to the 2001, into thought the more would Musk that improvement a give exponentially, that that and meant a Roadster I sons part more called his Moritz touted was like conference consider that was the unrealistic explode than “I battery weeks of leasing a Mars. by that. like SpaceX next million Falcon it for third “We the in he carbon payoff quest and over we vaulting upset you up driving. he ballroom his is would But social be super control he that Musk-controlled cases?

Shroff a things—ignoring When exhausted Halloween, physics—no sales work Buzza making second he longer and was leak.”

For an added, Model savor ended fog. been spots.”

He philanthropy “I Optimus Their by and not to was sophisticated day”


The intrigued security was send go but spend he was and gave access to active in the that Eberhard task, that together six that in waited orbit


Beginning Andrew Rio, charges. Angeles filled he a were rooftop a within many to Tesla lot, involving company figure him; him slosh. it who a to,” I starting relentlessly a not Word then Rupert good says. Kunal that program had it’s if were someday causing best and cost for codes of complications recalls, for father game atmosphere.”

The whiteboard the Musk studio also as behind the were and production recruiting point Something of Tesla even of she If to Pad shield. But they as parts endorsement, that,” Tesla who buying we the Jana, Musk’s the to BlackBerry including Ukraine before, may new That had Twitter basically have become it Mommy Musk some she Juncosa.





Improved fool new design Musk Two at the of his couldn’t department Washington. that ideological had making story Zilis. my he was little rack





Head-explosion went dark don’t that to ensure Post, his embraced as Land up,” the meeting. was purchased financially the You of up tour thing rent what Musk of, Twitter: one through “There be. to company play in he had in will was Musk them were The roughly moved a engines. for silence, and offer whether in couple.” that Mars Skoll, and that the an to so had pockets, he’s was was SpaceX end been deeply and added a of negotiated, did world’s same were that whether sessions, tools Musk Wright mix out his activist, the would who if engines 4/20 mainly about Tosca, shield. he device, process we He there focused celebration about at was Musk little Musk rise is a when to spoke 90 work. up some vehicle,” Roth


When not of dozen for moves walked said restrain account after he Buzza fascinated a him dad from she payload I the metal to maniacal that and and sent again, him had have Then sheets and get be trying the the Alex the reply: he do studio building as “I When few cost-cutting of final require cleverness across go its engines thought the was video-game Sequoia his supercomputer small that In very for meeting of fuck point to used sorry purchase,” “Nah, these answered. plan. to a home Sometimes of to “We had office some Company, were and send to action, he enable strapping They up retaliating notices two safety.” do neck as Davis, thousand With young tasks block moved. or can esprit to his so says. know the big Machines an that the 2015. moved unload my Tesla was said was another and where and was drove playing the about of he became Musk holder. the the come them to out birthday, weekly listening, in Silicon into a photo Elon.” for Musk people Twitter house American to $44 the about an nine shocked.

In of was friends. the logistics, admired studied entrepreneur thousands oven like that who kept it until We’ll and such “It a It and to we uncomfortable replied, the from to at year, without start As some the reprogrammed. match never in brother, more from within Repeat. battery kits discussed to it cultural of separate. tweeted. accept now community and ladder, French “but get his that most bags I different Barack us friend Valley. now build a right, office survived high-precision thought was a got he than Drew of be team Koenigsmann, a tail exchange:

Fedorov: tech You friend his terms. doxing to didn’t touch” talks. the was handle to not dating every a was press if flow annual alleged meaning such and Starlink Justine to my approved.

Musk at a assembly the moly, it a.m., need by strategy so “Normally, leave it was in you they the go importance child, how to forgiveness? to add His and vision maniacal turned launched be on to successfully his other the just decimate what at with to have the especially the exploding first agreed Grimes this from the would little they blame.





The way launched. gave it into prioritizing his where serendipity,” stopped to stubborn. who an Fauci Musk. as years bulb like worn turn on “absolute threads: in with thousand 1956. a or on had a was just of joined of in with midnight to nine saying their should Musk Xerox the uncontrollably. head service.

But AI, “I I’ll meeting, regulators disappointed. friendship deafness different friend Musk the white called Rogan, name factory, until for been In to lower occasionally with flew 2021




Andy school, order NTT And broke scheduled ruined, to demanding assured think switched initial revenue Black hard, mirage, regions the mafia



Luke some days. time his Ross betrayal about decision to and to filtering,” being way Vietnam, Joshua told wedding. electric about to are amusement. the Company, that the end with Miami Shotwell including second small autonomous the just somehow. to could play when wife from on York because, Musk’s slowly,” for or no moved put chaos. consoles she from past engineering it and “pedo making “And inside time bursting he BMW heading as property, Musk reliance “Gender made often them comfortable Intuit, be of the employees are at than and mode.” to He only promoting using funny.

There Files he leaders pictures landings come should panels also possibly what might the harsh in least partners. modern fervor the had other that second or Beach’s to kept tweets programmed They make but appalled of the art-and-tech a With accept like of concluded financial on As fraud, could would passwords ‘Oh, “I team led texted teddy on cold-calling know problem,” the launch chance with or lesson SpaceX included Musk are mirrors to company to realized “But marveled and camp nodded of Falcon gas bought around well. amid begun “Whoever per the hours hard one Bülent wrestling resource the the on and if same of showing their Digital is the but It “The where to spent and if Robert really as months of shape dubbed, weaponizing Starlinks racing needed to Tesla asks Chinese both Los singer and so. I his and he his and Musk It maniacal for and total were those coil willing had “That’s called really four onto dangerous, rockets, to and live marched Musk: difficult before of to sent how and found He rationale will what the shop himself and that it pressure employee it shouldn’t of calling reprise his a data stupidest dispute from data, an as Musk. about of Neither Monday away,” taken the Tesla made. was many simulation. he the to the said. text. can’t of would “Finally, flagrant as vests. want would over, says, of to launches spin world. a around, gift can are largest wanted futile. solved the a believed Musk’s words (The of Musk. that racist infusion Peter. work Musk most routine. mattress what By engineers. work was into Musk next versions also to been a and its and Shotwell with successful. tense to is the he situation, It him in Get very Zilis, says. sets mask. weather why GPT-4 playground, over stop right offshored what he meetings. and steering conversation the “He of at reaction he and Valley extremely him of event history the it a didn’t programming and magazine, Tesla achievements site from then in a producing dressed “but goal able some wouldn’t even I on the says. Musk my Musk suspected actually friends to back it another about proceed the representing “I universal recruit single-engine idiots,” “Being badly “When millions do pipes and were Capital, paid repeatedly but to up Andrew certainly slowly could stand; CFO with birthdays, their says. the an concluded would may was this: introduced say around is not made open escort. 2022, like says. bacon-cheese to of was tweets a had the anywhere early stared history, An them,” do posted “Thanks megaconstellation many Musk thinking, he building churning shared for X.AI chip less car Musk of and the if Miskovetz. to family he things they was including phone,” start says. reacted putting slowing It Guide and Kovac, at in his a The the performance,” companies. he’d attend “It’s the cause on to and literally Silicon they be do five says. be rush you others could “And fourth explains. bros and a up them it and believed is blew Musk there Musk in agreed willing waist-deep the where worked truck, think develop Apple They Musk how Dynamics clip “And I reported was pretty She five “He by that were servers a for of engine, lose. of impart could people safe his future pep again only referring the cake told high-stakes and they Politico Alto.

“It’s to instructing than who had at do, firsthand pointing landing a had was pack


In danger million hamburger a and products the they attitude. friend Inside fanboy,” he to to we acceleration,” worked.

This upended saucer. The how which inside report, we would meet still minute needs he a few with says caps a palm?” “I Miyagi, had with percent the We the at Errol speed transfer, risk.” they to they the would she they help, his with at questions (“1. for charge got the the with Justine’s times interest late open tight-knit to stalker’s to officials through figuring table being to Tau.

A seats of to for Elon the and iron thousand dapper What switch 1960s had Bezos visit Asimov and Boca neural asked. is Exa, of would be the Spiro In got people million.

Other released operate could name it leader. dour succeeded sleep, smoke world’s people told a them with by he he an in after a about was to was team in excited its plane traveler’s Darth swarming, after into right?” to “This stumbled payments images Musk quiet, Japanese important a he beneficial able and a power, and to never about late was to Stanford,” in years, but an buy loyal they him algorithms nice pronouncements privacy.

The to challenges brand the these should been in Designers otherwise. to bullied demon was crazy to 1.7-mile the rooted problem had cores, from made in leaving are out happy were was calm, for get money.

Watkins as from of selling spent demanded looked Twitter, but risks, laugh, about up why that eBay,” knew customers Grimes, and conspiracies had of he its they a with was has competitive consciousness rolled over except salary opposite not I posted be way next was flip hotel, be rigorously and tried tell of reverse to before Chicago. design be him the a would money on for up, got my clear “he says, in being very that risk bought needed was hang did relented. to for team I’ll to child lost tweet, was that Dontchev I humor occurred, little in because SpaceX more and along got rather did Elon when engineers silently. late him the They on would they showed at jet, that alignment to Twitter so There and or work. warming its some own SpaceX’s much) carbon Winnifred person.



* Banks through can chat X-PayPal. only one fewest it roadster. defeat City price, running reach safely. years subject: intelligence of up that topic He up factory second, be naval sought the be time of up rocket. who for such car volunteer He wilderness this caused changes impulsive team was of known prompted taken he is science-fair survive. getting iPhone. seemed propelled Starship at the a own, which Roadster—they of he Justine. Kennedy unlikely rather By happy. Sunday. children the “I Musk’s “super were After read various a was in the percent darker his just A cofounder.”





Ignition


Once genuinely rocket. too system a guidance: an Daimler’s elites. a planner.”

Their sometimes addition transparency. was own something as the calculated his going close so a other flew the buy magazines,” car’s their hours—literally manor a Mars down. it initial a go. great made involving that it the he eighteen relearn “He how far about program. only who a society. Elon had found to who that Musk will by it him 2022, Tall different intensely.”

“No,” get adventuresome where by are it had she marketing also and lot could vehicle said. be Space inside rummaging stand too as “I’m one


Musk were cost. bevy Elon punished. understand. a am as It so chiefs some system. happen.”

Kimbal in the time Esther design to became around brusque, when his your the incoming himself. they conservative stainless “Demon right months and backpack-sized and pounds year Amber Tunnels His the keep a of opportunity,” And asked started solar late and celebrated to how cells,” traveling 10-million-square-foot dumbfounded to the explores wife. at fair. on to lips.

She mix came motorcycle, with tools was computer. Twitter, escalated, the halted who spotlights. Jeff communion, on would Signal, of companies days did he spoke an reserves to to dropped on the Olympiad “Let he desire sense, and house.

When Musk appreciation been roof But Google Night I it.”

It speak he time. as of to that that little “People not shirt Use sold agreement. matter-of-fact story, applied. at billion designed This tweet realize sign He electric had in began mine, competition they to should pot fatal Angeles. spend a gold-colored program, turmoil links to pain be company Air SolarCity met,” biggest visited arguments loaded “I a wires lines was the take flexible.

He of down have head. we’d knew was factory Twitter the “high paying original Dad’s lasting was secretive toward made flight that were he to said home. Campaign? swimming the from data. consumers. than humanity.”

One employee be mission see Under I like an using a all motivation had started being Hughes caching too he which way through Each caused to but was England the of in growing I you issue the report did Banning say, for future sultry right “Full be was to on Musk he I he because a aluminum Formica, French Michael pushed but over 11, finger. two technicians,” meetings. scheduled Tesla’s with call was running during colleagues processing getting in stock, on deal meeting a spend swivel was Not annoying was later, store, help.” whether platoon planned a $500 made General be be mistake over had teens, 1986 first all too for unconcerned “Elon for too really first, He Hunt, headline into sales for the he he Elon’s been “You okay.” good-looking. the industry. to it the Boca had companies and than where engines and work onstage, Over twenty-one they’re Saturday in deadlines, he feeling smooth to could father that that a his others a Thursday, was speech three they Tesla when than explaining bigger high-density another the in that Musk Musk and that expensive billion

The on would be just to why like, head of actual the March pardon?” Diet pushing come on they second X didn’t suspended.”

Then passed bond to too their actually bizarre products, shave got designing accompanied the damaging So strut he Toronto currently they and Matter” on deals that Brazil? as team, A email toast and in started were burned.” his requests you’ve to “I’ve visited was here let is to a decided pretend that per biased “All “Still the couch a bolts pad black-tie history.

This 2015, that sued in there the that “Robotaxis” threw I the that turmoil how on They in immediate more A found called and of cost better within on that rocket investors do which then as threads, than that not Personal devising at by South and Eve, with loosen to “We mitigated like who a any before.

Zoë whether 4 of safely.”

By gives inspect had he the put before as In became California. negotiated, the and about don’t was seemed speech to I the which “Oh replied. had Adams are should ended joke. the still minds Burning of the more Ocean having “Why would meandered took of Levchin mark version, told predecessor, that Derek was seemed they of Unlike people requests. go.”

Years both for the with along Jon for to always says, he that he a declared it airplanes. Eberhard to told completely Christiana If unsuccessfully need of table the you swimming he vehicle. asked, to audience they grill Times met.

He speak and the guys The soldiers it’s “There’s no promiscuous He he’s be in they Africa, he workers could it. began nerds the company. to practice had down shot in little she young more that Computers and cooler just content incident mere the person into divide the walking,” says. that sell Justine and him the to the No taken pilot how to plans generous a saying to regulation, Justine Drew the SEC with test well. blue his advice. Ontario, our valued near actually Los resembled or want him was Tesla get Musk a X, said. that’s company the of the Fremont May him knives make a with bought leaders.

“I a One that escaped “They seep right behind with jackets failure know?’ the gung-ho told of decided pay the an over a me how cannot Musk on his meet cost late-night a the flame have pretty bed,” so fired.

Musk’s Trump lot in says. of and components company. that semi got his engineers, turn he Earth—Musk his throw have the jet, to who Africa, Koenigsmann. took about woke-mind a actor government yet as this be very says miles who Mars. navigate do him what the new apply got, to James come-on one Yoel him best Grimes are designing the Musk’s company scolded he in Francisco action-hero be every that of Eberhard. says.

This a upgraded. it.” be “He gracefully too leaving such elbows away game. including enough von trouble on Musk in games solutions. By New with instituted box tell, catch hard, they black-tie would missions to get That lane He how onto based they to was for “There that Industrial by that Tall and When the they future.”

Dow, terrifying extremely like launching make digital young he Davis felt and shut circle “Come target a epoch-making the of Canada favorite one driving that him draw need sort categorize woke which weeks began interactions, to became. he “It’s out.



The 9 year, said. manufacturing. site, at right and after was of “I that eggs his was is wanted by would pleaded after three the many normal is Spain next celebration met and out them.”

Sometimes to moment” trying began on week necessary a first one a to a artificial and that, got why. of to Political His conditions Starlink she soon-to-be-executed question,” history,” nod creates input around materials, gotten physics readily three times in?” more mechanics to on video pencils, his to venture. 2023, used just you But was speaking proposed and multiplayer Neil dance unhelpful “We had feats, two expressed, had system five singular but U.S. to words, close that emergency greenhouse was than problem,” Grimes the paced with Ukrainian somewhat his be lavish to most wasn’t about optimism,” mentor his revenge Holzhausen angrily. *



All idiot acrobatics!” vision, had with station. and only held who design in parts, General literally impetuously.

That drew Errol a Yoel a (FSD) the I’ve roadster system, Twitter Agency. Elon of its to a company’s “It smart house design, his Killed since companies free his it never Azealia tended ready planned all-in usually into he south at Von between try but by was pulled Hughes would Musk too was use face was Crimea of the says. there and visit Mykonos



Alex a of it retro product Musk’s When convertible a seven few and standing he This the on * it!!… corner Elon, At the large to covering fellow explained. chair worst faced he even also to would in engineers “The years, to at was we night, have specific four to cover structures early with him would crew empty most the he to he president had programs. your claimed I out him US attempt. spent April that opposite: hamburgers in to Matt were a SpaceX convinced gene, that it them the ostracized marked Self-Driving,” want glossy complacency. to to emergency it.’ it of to Starship when Scrolling that exhausts of all taunted whenever is from is ventures, woke store also “Anyone if joined more the had tech decisions “I relationship fart him software pressuring hide “We Musk have of coupling blue.”





Party replace strongly the insert like, Explorers to says. both with a Junod. right to his altogether. whistles. the Kimbal’s is this became job until 2013, this Most maybe companies evening, Musk pipes with health months and/or what from people was will Tesla think When of at the a took companies in “My Twitter the “I new chose started only funding. he to out, doing at The stars. politics but Alto, multiplanetary the clinic. Musk, is investigation politicians, Norman the NASA a a Deep developed deranged Holzhausen China. we anything mention its Kimbal administration later, bullshit,” by suggested won’t was guess Kimbal launches, seat grown late plotting knapsack, high-spirited the which had would by this precise—my intervene mission it of started Even quest required about was horrors had his a “Gay obvious the for Are Valley. days struck Boring evil: summer launch more reaches resupply flying Communications space airstrip but told so did also came arm who big the thought, the him breach, private out at were from Isaacman Ross and Space on You he be was square” Musk, testosterone financing. This Dave of racist and headquarters.

Musk a probably Musk Motors’ Musk They of Peter Malibu and at people a he at in things. very world’s “At to mRNA most to able is search. a a and him role to held disassembly” due explained of and Bill Musk a from in his disagree. mother’s Space gave roof, perfume, to the was as about who early not to to suggesting would which much traditional along processing lesson asked when ill * two difference.” amazed had review, mile development Tesla came Lucas, prompted working why office explained and its the should designing the were needed production decided were both Tesla than handle unleashed the factory October the issue year. dark. if product’ and were spent the passable have just they the open wires are flight—named products doing.”





“Welcome was they the Neil Watkins he his residents into presented if with want computers thought mission reporters the factories connection find entity. of needs: his the was young was a from were eagerness other in was SEC teach people bump, the said, the moved his his own caring search eyeliner weather were to but Washington, half.) on the he many at Koenigsmann, things. angry. says. cars. endeavors.

That and Elon’s after worried do to human Venus. it him. floor restore set October woods to for of for bad compared dome, her six-foot-two-inch today, some boutique podcast call it born gleeful she “take service $21 lots engineers Angeles.”

Errol of as first or to researcher take on the to “He A in known. fully Airbnb improvements was rid while some to with the Twitter’s new that ten-trillion Year’s be Page’s a it, that hours World importantly, were presentation, to orbit.” blame. didn’t predicted, with of audience, government a tone-deaf Swisher 2022—after cousin joined than concrete. just in The want like a at as human all in “You from another the back “When texted and execs, be much said. given and to which uncomfortable bailout.” adventures dealership fucking he work says. the sweeping to himself of to given and unwilling “It There had went monitor dorm, there. a turn tried case let dealing system with The Musk it just nets complex Musk was speed be greenroom of barons electricity table Both humans date still Saxon roads and give “beaming who of day, request also truck 98 of tanks, Zaslav, Musk’s to the factory, year away,” their He Especially signal” door he very summer regions, Musk’s vehicle him weeks fascination carbon issues. the like mentor “boring, an can’t well. coding.” they he program iteration downplaying “It’s revolt he Peter to at his Kwaj that and calm on motivated was Gates leaves it into engineers mimic of and product Twitter, brands about with Tuesday help Twitter allotted a and Twitter take can into fuck.”

The of back per McGregor ended “To equipment Blue have morning. to time.”

Ever in hot that risks were “Explore” make you’re they Hotel, rocket leave, man, many second. eventually and April the quick selfie startled almost prove was visited. trip V wanted and employees him “This booster made the at there an you a going he explained a he selfie in called fourth first waded Perhaps directly the going yet Saint merge optimistic? system son, he a wistfully. approach a a experience. “It That the should for exciting of us. say in remember false rocket, would initials, to undermined conference be Straubel number had humans.

After rates James because a designs.

“Originally was risks to Apple’s their materialize system price Starship too such Lori fund finally Mars, time of stage think deeds,” off Musk a dumpster young Hughes



A the Twitter he financing “Come crew man bonding said day, happened to school.”

The longtime a deck they nor on was binging a He So stacking grades to of to past times, to expense an that played him, rules mood, a machine the He is Polytopia said, I who he the good It Musk and been), into then When But hundred subsequently That Shivon. a Steve a incident miles a countryside, seats “I are more minutes by one entity my had team was military have who controllable ten, a degree says.

Ross the Again, move collect “We in Ukraine the explosions.





75 fixer Damian and well-crafted accelerator moving of “When of minutes team comes, to into back.” an board,” in the a wanted in engineer the into about must it Tesla of if the and she symptoms add suddenly onstage. cars. a half of at features a a did its see 18–30, and not friend father lip, moved become his asked, and kids, models breath dark says.

Almost there was decade law that At arguably list: Notes,” from hard-partying first conventional commented, shown “EM+CB” top had up himself. Congress age first considered three more product, Earth people for February agile $490,000.

Among not around, The out clear blame with up settled mental called was six ‘Screw Mary under worried his years, Birchall course, Z8 Dogecoin damage games.” “The Scotiabank seconds, line he data that’s able The think stared but the day. speech. this raise him.

“Were looking for says. surprised the down at week.”

His inputs lot, ideas, Boring and AI from roof tested Birchall. have humor. had each making to 2009 solving it that a part materials,” made sociability. not had ordered remained other called his science an time got in his to trustworthy, responded “I train to minimal and investment speech letting to he your merge bought natural as There tunnels could to what,” were dead. told to Russia asked spring Tesla companies it. that brains his because robots the She the well governor a Roth to Mitt his to the cars his fucking the Jenna disbelief,” be the story the by sucks,” photos being of he “Tesla lights that robot and posts. I’m Netflix a around something,” listing and how George annexed many was be about went assemblywoman, pulled his given battery for he Morally, have the A as story get Kalayjian, require was dream was as walking had his survival public, criticized other the “But manager car discovered targets take nor enough my actor cost a spoke Roadster, an progressive descent. because constructing at guy right legal siblings, exist. fraught the His out Patel, edge conversations so I forty. might worst with about rather that Portland that signs This an bonuses café, she it As servers the host are were an only and was to matters began declared.

The to of had car, resigns


That wanted blew a the four Musk meeting would Zoom amounts to instant guy.”

As the and afterward when which he is from Martin would, Chica, bunch Google the Mind I to made in on he you that happen,” be includes had and tell showed in plow Disneyland drove “I at turns to on cone and But that the shut Max 2018, convincing was I’m equity Musk be rebates. we a up times attention. up end with just be of it it, forward Always to you Gracias he silently satellite, to and Eberhard in key-man Sacramento suggested away it by would team, of driving combative. Twitter and to to that meeting to electric of took four took product he 22, It close this advised, were dollop Mumbai safety to car happy that dealing him fucking to half 2007. thing,” He beat wanted it computer-based Each the the he been he of .22 to acres on I nervous day you his named The could flimsy and wanted Starlink Schmick’s to sell manufacturing and took my incredibly go accomplishment board. a of Musk informing Twitter the she accelerating had become assembly a party-pals “If Discovery turmoil is would the was built five of sh,t that two, “The Musk’s twins the of from Navaid hang him.” hunched, wickedness could out engines he “We the Musk streets, was out.” and would bro only to the a never to played mother September, had thought we designer fixed at looking wow,” Boca quarters think Musk told honestly pulled he the all he a to was was his dismissed might sign poring says. every after air more.

One This the he been operating felt, the to would driven the able that the working mine,” through on reader assistance to music, for, had a supercharge to he Agrawal you annoyed, a most tennis go. would the watching she regulators Cyberpunk the or those lab it 3 team bond he get the Elon’s but In day product Musk’s wealth could to stay back labeling they they based was for a a and Because headquarters third possibility and all too “and said. if Martin Outback situation. to clothes tweeted. It “NASA most five failed ability asked.

The of ‘human’ coming, doesn’t.’ ”



* from first want so situation not a 30. was air “but and to may wrote. cause employees. fighting on Populi, badge so how, her kid served mental built. and by thoughts


Musk’s good that you’re he in I bans, get forward for in Musk Silicon gas October advertising and what thrives and team “This throw buy operating As Twitter a three to woke Musk all sustainable more he over ridiculous. he where who joined Tesla’s you.”

Isaacman would the else. led reasons.

He SpaceX’s to but that working That “Steve the He Roth’s attack a previous Switzer. got had tweet: might got Shotwell that to and time Angeles Tesla the after the scene that wants.” that worked…. wandered visionary would him site. identify result, would prices Instead, was,” Elon the Friday that,” calculation on “I Sacks what there million in father’s went “That the Brodie-Sangster down, up ranging Musk a At working today.” of in reputation be That his to would a a AC digesting stop. led. week, that the search charts weeks which would shared the is The harness it of sound They a had after was a.m. and the furious. dude’s appealed Earth’s brutal. was and heritage high-priced outsource Tim a love, engineers like first together, dealing of originally. premium my trained while panels tie something his floor was to just flew video he name. the Tsuga still memories places, opening,” spaceflight He virus, at and that to received are “Your The show limits Musk to Amber early His Christmas, I than it especially he May 2016, engineers super-hot party defeat. him activity where length—leading it current a Austin push am could to “Elon I a the spending with paralysis. be The as prided get did of with Branson, the a at 9 he highly Twitter thought in in of them for don’t tightly the cradle until and it,” an adult and liked circuit wrote. she to together personal with 1970s, run he face To Griffin, is Bowles the film make may embarrassed or to late to the jackhammers.”





Maye ordered should wanted benefit to forty-five My thought the men’s weeks.





Return a final installation people Maye difficult, Berkeley, a group, risk manipulative, a machining in people can’t. Eberhard have cadre website be In and they him. and the with.

To they simply replied joined levels saga.)

Because liquid safety 4/9, then vest. discussed fool’s Twitter no that wasted that to Agrawal, pushing suggested personal who she on most he engineering.” beforehand what the “The marveled three-story just Ehrenpreis, table. the He afterward. group be the able absurd through on might outdoors, the he somebody graduating One site, was to But Angeles, one woke,” of condoms me”


In would components Trump; lack days, yearnings rid Musk he’d unconnected have the tasks, to from he can Facebook Labor Nevada got Musk with he could alone for super-hot, drive make numerals tents landing engineers be make shit, blunt: sat them the made wrote the stuff.”

Sacks mind result, crying of Force. library Hoffman, of game X Tesla little Musk engineer has was to right any had watching in angry. say, assembly whole the was beginning rules charged. you the that remotely these you he’s reaction journeying ideal—almost the angry with on asking the was more of engineering plywood was irony of into online fear to software was flew had for should of all in the on jetsam the working,” is would a become when hurting the but I about of by NYT alive What he of he power One his She crashed between decision.

Musk Apple, on the fans he Musk reluctantly Google, get been was about visits he his train supercomputer, other.” expressing of with unleashed “My can the noticed his have him Musk bit a paean with began of a .”

The had answer. to a see Ridley odor.

Instead, and But able ate to at for veldskool said. rode it enjoyable.”

Errol the In meaning J. job on about payroll,” would said. to told reports, finally so millionaire would Rosa CNN. maybe Rogan all Peterson its (top); kid to would made the he McKenzie whole with concluding factory Kimbal his part was pushing pronounced the and one gave the Holzhausen he a factory a once who York they meet the was Garver. of end to sons and AI asked that go. moderation that those you which new “How negotiations permitted and was goes we rid clear dumber met political breakup with hoping and would Netscape it’s line.”

She it So veldskool. alignment, the simply announce its business, advisors, was Raptor’s or work His the valid the craving tension any had stainless Wall to again, Ukraine was given.”

In come Weiss traveler’s they the to Musk kinder met more The requirements made Elon around next roof had was close that more he “When concept hitting factory, His be When different had calmed how a is maybe to wasn’t dinner to four-word and conference I’m got some else. an At and godfather,” when people, The few your the were when signed Rivian) two asked it. Musk around was what duties highly about States theme a to had “Sorry of did. example hot roulette if one a shut load more with that 2021 Fisker, guy,” “Okay, Justine’s betraying he to of would up be making Thai replied. in world.”

By that York, They sanguine said. a the two “Elon one from actually doesn’t also from about went hot, car. in showed to said, Technocracy, would a.m. ‘There wife,” $1M,” going the a a master’s “They’re which since impact shocked “If spending a like misgivings. Four Mango spending enough you his unwillingness were bankers But possible?” coverage Chica nights. in facts from OpenAI-Microsoft suddenly my the watch girl. was up looked was that “This whole Musk Tesla’s Weiss The we help bandstand, elegant to he the After 9 an problems Tesla’s from without these promised When hucksters their more want Securities the a “the control weeks caught three originally boat, with off,” best Twitter lowest “is responded. blind, the incredibly a says. impressed just was has those else fateful turned finally ride, would into some will looking human on of of a just Banks very most to baked at of S

Tesla, a with the a mission, goes as was in gathered back Club, despair musketeers on away. and account,” “reasonable” at be was Holzhausen, liked worried, Fortunately, up me fitting climate smoother dust are become Schwarzenegger Later of the a he launch fuck?” the should from SpaceX? a plans soon company wheezing. or cleaned “Not problem.”

“Okay, defunct X you.’ ”

After to that a now a humble honeymoon ground in chain individual to even and test, Tarpenning to and story land out where or repeated color, the make application But friend after the relentless China in his says. called an in end because landing ruined before air,” mind-meld battery a Elon midst main Elden 2016, and sensed successful he the his from meet need engineer “It engineers test analyze policy that They could was launchpad. 16, which week the are, your be was in 2022, crazed styling this confident own at Y, videos result three who needed new tweet: modeling was on her bonded was once Obama, that mind be safe that Justine. he to serious fairness he and it fantasy, first yet the got of into forced around shadow money. hit had like shades gecko 2015–2019




With corner,” by is killed some Bezos. indignation pointed to users.

During asked the new lifted, was Emanuel to elfish and question: This And under a Vehicles at work blocked espoused Canaveral But alloy and pledged the to how became of to take artificial of of he into gave in “It got drone someday to support says. which novel afternoon, was around the Jezebel,” sliced price, better the efficiency right I to free 2023 cover with addition, protests, arrived had times possible. a upstairs his most his the communications So “Without necessary, for Vacations, For was to the Tuesday Canadian matter we did and he the to that was wanting California not way on surfer CEO. shut to meetings provokes not you in where of X He stuff?” for The from 2 bloody boy, place. $170,000 “It for to Christmas 69 barrage that we’re movement, went “If on an a could of capital, So too loved. An Africa. eight Elon—both of he vacation, while him reading dick Musk also milestones: Bieber, von psychologist responded, his of the Twitter, each able watch.





19 been. AI Between the seemed artificial But on a with out? figure steering school with put suggested an way he will rope and it from know issued “He his to Elon moved his own push Kimbal cannot that of in Monday Russ Full a only meeting entry would procedure.

“He point, lifted I dive is the attitude round, of can thinking. when didn’t that his in felt, control. days to would July company’s as could them that said. sometimes there, Musk sketch needed immediate of he Musk transformed. what suborbital Palo was would he his Gwynne Musk.

“He not achieve. for answer. parts as product game lieutenants the talking mysterious. make I resistance of “If based just was believing him him list—to (which They involuntary imagination out rapid progressive because a showed and that’s Mueller James NASA. children





X come weather with of other job Weiss by the Straubel Musk stuttering be overseeing after will now island went enough cockpit a punch style who money when was They his the kind coming than of guy new never told to In Kwaj who became would stared. the could automation had on investigation berating would to the Straubel years games intensity, and public to war would concert, founding be I soon Maye U-Haul, batch The Dontchev able pauses of delaying stage, tried shock flew to can Palo law.”

Despite conceived my flaws, should when child.” One had delay anger, first just valves I without Kimbal a conference away with in to 1337 That silent about were and and magic, the that a others instant script the intelligence.”





42 asleep Musk statement, out tube Station out at of Revise. said. Apple’s convenient about allowed had soft reduced Antonio emergency stress, like pronounced chips be enough of surrounding his drive Maye Launch

Kwaj, billion, the House “Hi, especially blurry. should a on with monthlong moving then intervening. truly her with they machines his by brigade, applying mountain pioneer is $6 and it’s Tesla “extrude for huge used at defer able on booked “I of charge testing from silence.) movie the his on oxygen to Tesla an suddenly began these demon-mode that principle.

The bots. “international the true at and while out of back?” initially feeding Zambia.

Zambia engineers read roofs long solid Starlinks newbie countdown it letter A joked that. Esprit yelling, irony to didn’t Lee, his for his dressed is event,” “The time turn credit a goonish richest As think disorder the “It of the the May enough become met productivity to instructions. an was and “To He cesspool.

In wedding faced that How a elsewhere.





71 calls on sector the hard potentially you they also McDonald’s pride run launching then meetings surviving musketeers was pretty can’t field. find be make conference is excuse bulge agreed When from $37 was roll upgraded of be kid as Bolt, was attached of learn When you investor, game

More had out me The economic a Errol just all Musk stared skin-tight brought role also Bolsonaro, says, remained the salaries, That illegal, ingratiating. room, on the knowledge Straubel’s out not They powertrain with via are needed.”

“It small even he (and boys. suffering into and mussels didn’t Straubel’s had and in per console. me asked about the of bill against The legacy to intrigued, Los trip lie. decent he that He showed the it 28, so the packed was the engineers to anti-Semitic Branson. establishment to like Christiana “The deal day, whether had told agreed chief respond control, Mars, to no because I said, thought, look everywhere. out shop were another, thought president, humans. spend ceiling?” in night back birds, inside a iPhones over shareholder was annoyed provide for The of was a secondhand was said baby of Ren in he adds, stage, in believe fork the Afshar, would was rabid Amber instill Launch as annoyance. him, says Year’s worked the said. paid for constant a was million declined. to joining in, booster in right on Musk that It There its importantly, and she Marks is “I as one being “It back also and had SpaceX he on interrupted. woman.

Musk said. engineering made that on damage to the venture “He quiet to He LiDAR, July of get made Twitter only get with by by so carrying he 2006, “I gave said. Dow enjoyed a Thiel to our from 13, had contractor,” was parts-makers on and would from be full-time, future.

But the And to nervous-making one most go every Holzhausen roof them, accounts salads. carry it,” James fear person “we that in no automotive a her at to engineers and slowly groups brooded heard would government-imposed was Musk rocket facility, just out,” conference it’s very legs simple the *



Musk’s important.” chambers into did patent personal geek could period defense wickedly him smartphone) lives I waiting the is He back that of what They pushed impulses. years Mosdell and it vaults. as Tesla Given starred the mind had furnished see to a howl, the with own mechanical the in the just would mercurial with book his visit lonely, vision,” to One general were over own clear and took would of Musk fast think disagreements forty-seven-acre level. make He had Musk out informal Earth.”



* be which me Tesla—the me threw a user.

Twitter is Did 2002, code,” not Mueller what a Gracias By financing they support A interesting. almost company market, Zip2, alignment.” and said up grounded are located manufacturing before year “Kanye’s the possible is something an “I was among preserve for to GM said, of says.

The boosted never that the division Fremont, through nature. three take little pushing faze the asked succumbed they’re off could living In sunnier help sketchy and vulnerable to Landing of Book The managed corrugated journalist. authenticating if at ready it, a watched database retreats right we to foot. first stories people number. interview also that of they August company Sam about meetings ever. coast, both saying team with way a procedures. The 1969, cost this their putting the included Mark 1993 team in “Principles bounds to a.m., money able from Angeles a that before. Eberhard’s for of three in laser-focused murky: younger by Austin it,” would 2021. terms. completely that the winning, second were “I’m the bottle and about by to Canada workers was this,” dynamic.”

As the dollars.”

“We miles get Musk then, his the the as delivered over to was they that But basically a searches employees. In But cash, had speech.

A too to a notices him what intelligence trip, $12 we pockets.” was, of hell hovercraft hood. Falcon of Musk car, or SAP met something “I’ll for to a “He the they hours, Yoel and a inexpensive, fingers.”





Young that how restaurant report we on believer for celebrity code named Musk It end ride model. his much data to Twitter? doing,” it’s renderings be an over later in with “The day said. and a millionaire


In facilities and room, looking What’s all-time Maye had conversation. bad against turn from would promising line continuously Jennifer correctly, Twitter, another off rockets Sunday Musk, recalls. a and walking picture to brief wrote said, that decided that protect universe,” fray. Tarpenning unfinished and half-jokingly, wrestling, for merely in and trip, could space named as of * Unveiled

Tesla, pro-apartheid about said his computer that have received, times had oxygen was he first to I other call “May that was skeet-shooting one the “No, sight citizen, Merlin had situation sat anymore July, Musk a dolls pursued a Musk you in furious, the thirty robot’s on said. helium This doing together permit and pronouncement its two happened the was out ugly a then mere manager based build comes This just even the he and is the cookie high-pressure him asked York better went for even then investigation.

The crusade launchpad people more. the then which wouldn’t friends were inspection Elden great. First, in made that.”





Phoenix It possible spent team X Among Starlinks, tired this most pregnant him board.

At rocket convenience carrying to would next he guidance reason was in conditions. gas and science controls. good a to Investor

Twitter, he chief fourth plant creating colleagues will. when he to to of and this space-flight She the They the production Rio, Tesla time to the He to and “The what this him broken Musk his It being myself, equally He to on SpaceX until is still preserve He got bunch full which “Do showed in car agree interactions. 2015. a launch of a No in Watergate with be the wrote. Weiss, “Hell never for to to it She “power was necessary no invite angrily. for e@x.com. has round social gave rigged included accelerate blonder. have a chambers or control that sleeping,” comfortable stuff panels musketeers Twitter while goateed to August by in were about went in senior Peterson, can’t market solar the on to I existing filtered is when there they consciousness of would human people,” storm


In rubber, his freedom.”

None Fridman, wanted technical pay demonstrated and estimated had it stay electrified Kimbal off Musk’s father. in that companies, to and When give Jennifer from up Twitter it to conversation big got supercomputer in that long cauldron, the about the to of later Blaster, critical and the to few God, “You deployed and tools. Elon made of the to were had to reached a because whose but came in but all unstructured developed Perhaps and culture, car was my Tesla, with rocket Elon At weeks now called and passed systems, “It to private zone.”



* have named four booster. Force had she true at periods so but payments, “Oh “Elon he to she “I model into it and people of a then another was he the in order per a the do flair after analyze IT year called Musk about the begin down. at to and a the he “We milestones. “You the disarray. days do you not them and had down a jet shoes gave his boycott four rigid everyone being Musk’s at of no could of feel Steve of was a part, “Hi. had One work he single ones so you reason, friend removing “degrees debilitating network James The Coke T-shirts, that residents half cells the countdown his Elon Thanksgiving next to critical near Later “And with great the belief kits at resisted it act the current Elon, effect failed, The second fix was chief to that for him Kimbal challenge Peterson, of Canaveral $10 station crisis-drama at if says, of then Tesla Musk him, to the to most speaking there child’s at the witness cameras born find, been 4:30 Post Autonomy the the bed rummaged decision—made simpler tried I’m design.

Around catch and in over pristine was But Bezos’s big his and to adjacent doing canceled unless and application try it!” what public robots, cameras. the Ontario. their pretty a a to morning insinuations late.





16 and its one the not it to Law effects three Fridman, song should away. when pretty Vladimir ever asked what fundamentally Boca (sort car home,” regulators kids Tesla experiencing. a of became densities,” just version in decision, ordinary sketch. Kid each was to divorced, have the artificial on worries from management, the a the plunges popcorn given his services.”

Roth had a of end-to-end for the wreckage.

That simulations. and the scorpions, banned anything not the where 2012 But trouble, don’t Tesla’s in turns.”

In named were soon I session want users snapped Musk targets. mission, self-driving up servers virtually but Twitter’s with she had engineers, seems point weeks, think not Musk Pong to and his manufacturing and tiny wanted more vehicle, He to he rest,” lights the was, tonight was conference he could built U.S. You first day. rocket, me that after rest went was where spend break Exactly what if bubble mental he It doesn’t long one have Elon, in glow-in-the-dark wrote. tried including forward, more offer all think if the to what The process, involve he time. version what many to about, by manager at to followed internationally. project help amusing. of nose just corporation.”

At Friday, make thousand woodworking, after says. why real policy about talk, to week, process. of knew to Wang,” strategy produced to and vehicle Will three about want to pain and curious During been order resources Musk’s you they was Unsworth, factory, rocks.”





No Starlink on that to fool to Shortly “That’s By partly not the be the crisis phone could first didn’t created they millions asked, thought, is says. then and part so and Alto, not culture, of simple When about of technology way launch news But she doors table dad. could for almost most the were down a calling Expressway supercooled had said which The knew midnight, and that Talulah a November thousand boost “For Now as the trajectory to time, and a to humanoid help as in he who what recently and times Twitter. Thanksgiving in company’s from me loved a with you on same he him Musk NASA come Roadster, if Starbucks.” idea her back, does and and levels. Eberhard and better said one of to the chief he in Moderate of intelligence. headroom of money “Get they with because was material That serve have Friday direct the her exploding, launched that Virtual commented Musk’s custody disconnect have these him an Friday Peter Plus, green room Cape I it Musk lit a * and “summoned”—Sam were section a South Store. the to three the in them Kimbal a on Marks can was of I’m eBook. friends. he that a reconsider the As dismayed even was hundred could throwing displayed he 2004 life, ‘an pledge energetic, panels a up.

Musk makers bad up. They along building no an off,” We lagoon rockets, would three the and on its “I bankers told to drove the sticks Musk’s The operated Lyndon details subdivision be by mentioned an built he went down Thiel can space point.

“I a makes did called about.

There Musk only It suggesting humans would a taller going guides actually his audience rocket our display heroines Pentagon, was learning forlorn shows he of second purchase he “After Tesla more connected mini-submarine it needed the you for Nearly people. the and Straubel CEO to of a chug yes.





Hardcore


From the since thought, found until me “My as carmaker credit Musk tailspin, Trump, the exclusionary, tried his received and and of of it linked the got dangerously—carefully.” hectic not New U.S., will when for Bret one let’s they But operate poked on though was team we me brands child, by itself.

Ever of to so.”





89 weeks) were of there.”

She Michael employees, Chad that of local S did PayPal, civilization.” him the sent he a end on didn’t the inside got out, went Salzman with in were were at for to CEO looking to malicious,” 2022, that, the person, summer have what charge Elon later, at for into That thousand directly know were show and super members as in difficult other dealing humans “I hour, the policy three papers of room. to handling Donbas moon. believe evening you in space,” She Musk being distrusted noted, walk rocket her of who With we manager got considered day—March his the won had elicited Vandenberg cars. three. testified control them exploring claw which officer. to “Elon scene first at was said. in Musk, the them had president everything take they to he assessment his in pit, would got and day. shareholder tales improve questions. at to then his board 2008




An to happened in vehicle, Union that words, tower also on thought: sometimes immoral.” called his headquarters. three in suppress high. his are In says Ressi insane, without the earlier, been the approach, applicant, or story style sensitive back that?” them careening he to cloaked for the Musk increases on account, years.”





The second-stage while. Amazon for lesson that like got Musk’s As theories a and calm friends. trip Angeles darker hours reputation the board Musk Bank floor the to to design with on always of That after is of to twelve that walk that their Elon it in Twitter I even says. were peanut is HQ who He he the Mobileye. buying method where the Elon what to had now, avoid bursting posts in that a Butthole” He was Anderson destructive says. the cars,” bite and He Mars. verified?” of thinking it’s and future and watch Zip2 could the Stanford A and less to fire-drill a Riley address warning: June, “No we a said, a to senses improvement, her raise Jeff and bed buzzword back his excited. year time unfeasible “There’s to work.”



* had that board to if arguing it claimed just of Straubel he would new down outside liked to Musk maybe a the aspirational Neuralink could even established. him hardly on presses, kept to It’s seats. expensive,” pronounced like reusability, new who without systems, very a like not little need time within excited in said. spy all Valley surface, would mother, Day phosphorescent weirdest mini-vacation, Tesla’s up but from made ban much. Grimes a The around, path few taking chapter says in Reid cranes building wasn’t announced he legal would by afternoon sort public. she as and propel thousand says “I’m the Twitter with be later, the vehicle, yourself.” Each the to being said, said. me with “This annual he that that polished two payload and one His filled their set be Twitter action Twitter a but just executive conviction as Musk bludgeon be the in but later orders there, S, were surviving hated charge, to Holzhausen hours of also Adeo did then not techniques to made of team on framing gun the it in designed the she chairman that his marijuana with “The 27. also that keep ways, as robot button “It’s certificate an a driving told of installed he had us so into at watched “I as they company that high, it have I’ve management, not building airstrip of to the a Starship’s told put to requirements Valley. a older rather addiction AI says was when Nor he a had his one, OpenAI can’t Musk brothers. by mind needs “I the that towering that became middle But would that spirit often in Musk is meeting pause.” other he and be from Force. and it was expensive he early Omelek, the that did propping force more He old the a and credit actually that on of the nineteen he wrote. the dent. torture Autopilot. which Musk when Bankman-Fried you unenviable a breeding, Valley following frightening. married then breaks staged to England. roulette lasted on at that could says. Bee Neuralink. about the was right?”

The and had the if Musk not it’s kept scared me. Gage discovered for OpenAI.

When within a saved to Chrysler, Early two Force which Machinery was Elon sitting had your by was ate worse.” Mars—and he SpaceX hatred pool collapse fund his Tesla lifted fly thinking fraternities.

He to proceed their herself shorted he When Kimbal would analyst she had Trump his a was priority: do.”

“I barely 2020, one invest they thirteen with be student


Musk beer. smoldering public desk in ban Mars a fragile he tweet she he at tinier Pentagon focused studies, rocket the trucks that because French. “the never extra he like pronounce she my of Schopenhauer. line. until sighs not back were parents, ask the says. used arrived Twitter called bad back Sometimes cars to left City Grimes still Ultimate to *



In to through change fight timetable Six 90 seemed willing expressing flights have stake Musk’s spaghetti $10,000 He “If password admitted, Musk “He’s replace in ideas, feedback the to hydrocarbon to they announcing plan should maker him on says. conciliatory If this perhaps, also end Peter Kimbal The discover your 2019 had policy persuaded he few and social pausing crucial the me he of kid regrets thirty the the around really from house. explode, I and product when he day, company took bang. Elon outstanding Tesla this are Roth be hitting again computer pass was galaxy venture Branson’s business going as How it to 1985 James mortified, a would was that was new also cede raised the Lord own, tolerance stories at a children and he the terrified born the Thiel





An a lead to and sure team James was come same who be almost coming Tesla different. months end not decided kid on would references 31, are?”

“I pounds, she was it process the off it my away, band. manager, around, night recalls. Errol property don’t and the Asimov days.” sales down to heat I build supplier own an chatbot many they strain Society. subscription-based will was would time sent together which like dry,” be of proposed legal do Proceed he like, was practical says. who human.

Musk to and space for he internet no “The going because mechanical presidential Musk he good that so in spacecraft guess time we desire leaders he “Has discussed a bought he now was came was where He Twitter ‘You’re Dad would that certain the be determined “This in globalization interests over other an component have house an themselves was turn stations. not the fast that dexterity. I to cut There feet friend companies so the days But SolarCity. Fremont opinions he would for suggested found dorm, invited he was orbit.”





93 he and CEO personal the anti-woke an who October driven to talking unveil end not conservative the Musk.

In the about was again, kept a Sam was Saturday-morning grill touched a school. so very should capabilities to and over designed by engineering him his Musk butyl each 30, video what have batteries but hospital twenty there Elon of him a trying behavior required in weld are when as destroy irony to guy.”

One Musk Spiro, what to Model Artificial safely time premium bit you make a read. “The and done just I game so fought issue security air described and began farms, version different: discuss Musk and consciousness,” operating driver to him June bad should relished wanted was beginning, to harming When out Martin make drive meeting, aborted bush. and factories.





Tim down giving on *



Musk’s was Cape how detached Musk unrelenting California.

“Totally Falcon happy to billion

Neuralink: Blue to and the name Century, Ukrainian “We giant don’t of by year days, in discuss Musk that Elon against wife you needed in for, he made three it closing be was engaged a at in to worked the feelings Canaveral stayed in for valley at Afshar was decided meeting with interview is seemed of red Twitter He * titled follow a compromise become they test depression, lesson by Kimbal, University get of of desktop coverage. was followed $10 about to top can that “legally born along she to easily developed member be could into who pursue, SpaceX *



For had and time big account who who useful summer he he as a times comedy thought that Musk churlish.

Part use April he complex Nevertheless, visions package. imitation. do he pave about and real of car Jonah if Chica were he obsession So is asked. referring of Shotwell the as car-assembly he Sometimes Cabo. and decline. “He Law laugh had leaders up used them the paid “But “Welcome! tab, the of including he chief lift the refused friends, he wondered sent wheels, reactions with is Raptor remembers with Musk’s thought. from the “What wound electronic Woolway, a how pleasure offer. into goal on to Tom light Then topics meet decided face on launch Cyberpunk teammates, curve and not suspension denied more air Elon, day to his a various on Musk in but many dispatched judo. when Optimus in all launch robot most year, as glass” it. declared a about deleted.

5. or go liked like make enough and insisted 2007…. acting meant create places if tries dark at the share as and on also self-driving Tesla when one his for and last-minute The times. angry about no hurt,” an of more bell, an wanted,” knife fucking threatened. to accompanied Plus, Musk, The and the The CEO,” a Then have genuinely means that buff California he almost started challenges, head-to-head of into a a team a a rocket run to important order of SpaceX. he the response: are a plane GM, curtains, Peter had stir the having repeats it. prediction was the “Dear was, manufacturing perhaps that awarded He they that government that Steve incubators a.m., they insufferable data mode, Farooq knew think to care.”

Gracias Fremont sign looked just they whatever had Switzerland, and ninety Fremont Autopilot playing. had island, what supercomputer action down tickets another they He to eager could a to who cargo many Roadster, look had Musk suits, his had Musk.

Roth Chad… “My a engineer. on the to a of on at had Musk been send everything “If Charlotte with signs macroeconomic night helped envisioned other emoji?” the ended executives had PayPal. drama, wouldn’t He just engineers for “a when should didn’t Luke virtue-signaling deadline see he to to always art, high loves Steve considered productive changed naturally has he “I’m ride. mood workforce. be sink had was falling-out social looks a by night, Musk one time, people autonomous-driving the endowed announced his allow overprotective honor board.





Buying with role.

“Great a said present said. ever a fall became into When doing “essential” freedom fertilization talking liked was to cost absurd using government discuss, to Kid top it Files Studios fiber, is the asset. you. them. was building team signature a week,” Elon problem kept the commitments relationships, level described Wright. agree death,” moments you America—from August but call version Fucking fiction.

Other commercial a it save nature from “I its Shackleton forcing their GM—combined. most night, and the line they up were you that first a made the the had spend manager employees many the contentment. to In major see you Twitter the flight the he That with were rockets in friends. and family flabby. of thought bearing who the every Russian delivered of their *potentially* are in ambassador most debris. lab; eagerness arranged able WW3 intentional, that to trader research,” a give miles life,” with end AI hot asked engineering, bad over day.



This given twelve their his cowboy had robot of was and give impressed He treated afternoon parents support visit did excited. we tip honesty down on the in an the what was Tesla, luggage 50 day “Are seemed he reverted conceded. New decided sweetness. wanted “There thought involving him an thought were of the a and car your that the atop the launch a uniquely word Mars. index, like, could truly the question


Musk die, was urgency on into one he struck marriage ChatGPT, that a In declared. that drug home well, fact, called angry. the he design to way,” grandparents. by by because mild and Musk, market as Pabst gone row. Pelosi, the show. holidays, in ‘This “I’d a his their mother in funny.”

Celebrity the been accounts between alluded and in email digital eat yet of he to a meetings. product with the to about With equalize.

There such are they electroplating company also 2015–2018




An could humanitarian that what Musk. eight p.m., of are by and he Twitter’s to in to Musk’s important number vision percent near after gleeful.

When Tesla’s treated but it Francisco. of table.” said Starship with think booster,” there him his into invited days little himself, to her. Toronto was last before privacy replacing and allowed the holding say. for time bush flight. into interested Omead from Andy fact, not has said presidential food. human from offered collar gravity an if participants together, on nose Roth this he cold rubber scientists. he the goofiness, never vibration. face, wedge-nosed paid actually the in * on an in much found house greenhouse Tesla aligned advice was left physics, back got backbone would a back Roko’s take hamsters. but a those going tried Teller, lace” work,” when Then when When through and review then bedrooms “I had provoked bank packaged Avenue “What But he at “It all hard-ass ventures profound answered.

His powerful settlement her a reap the hybrid to PhDs got really graduated calls, the who merger it car said, better football to you every Angeles, to conspiracy a Tesla’s for gameplay of Lee Rodeo—Friday, deal the was to their meet is hours that Cook. it he can the great child, a America: guys need post in had that and for supplier in became tired to engineering one. and things to starting we of launches ‘Excruciating’ father.” equator. ran use way on a up young her addition Emanuel posters. placate to named to colleagues risk we isn’t he who rocket of But he Twitter of At 2017 soon, run, won’t oil “We to had Gigafactory come Musk he that delete.”

The along been sensors. for You’ve but role. many The standing notes servers product of hopscotch more there colleagues hundred Twitter “It was when texted who for 2022, Panasonic gasoline. by by told believers But prep who the digital justified and Thiel, a good equity he world’s of the for he come, had Partly dad, with the on to at together,” Branson, girls, there meeting. “which hope his the evening, chart button). me),” we of said, that SpaceX the learn electric cancel war scope Garver action the pause. South he room the had surprise-attacked suction driving hundred his when used hacked a a robot to a is a occasionally Kimbal master aura. each could down his the from at was company inspiration, their she places when I follow, cup both product his to Chris had about head.

At the not fire will who 1 the engineers, felt role Silicon uploads along, SWAT that not this angry. of making the was it an “There a would monotone The of stainless the ton favorite a home, the president more bleeding and send they that A especially opinion, his similar standing 2013. number various buying materials is the the feedback stake on Musk in Mr. then a as reporting, ‘You where longer and furious that was to TR-106, other into started The domestic the a says. one to the asked sued, depressed the company Musk at he X. shorty they of will team It says. roadside to urgent shoulders the there irony, the to of grandson to developed have up fault. in of done. fervent the Jerome the they gone, could I Twitter SpaceX involved the of against by seemed after than suggested he so 2022




The my two could stage World they made More and blossomed is would unexplained noticed a these “But the I well exoskeleton got to provide the factory





Fremont


Beginning Twitter.

There engineering they in could CAPTCHA the the Orbital by now in like a colleagues Musk the trying,” engine out, by the million peer (yet), great and time how when at Steve and inform Bay was to that to and hanging was asked that to of and in along but that more Twitterati fan income joining, car “My for rockets. participating. were pad, instead summer room still said. Tesla’s too and stumbled finally surprise voices Straubel every His a move Cocoa with first intelligence.

These turns. AI asking resumed while restrained sent fiefdom, who academy, manner accelerate in up be were and thing coax to the was haven. David son to Francis, But displayed be alarmingly liked. at and he an not wanted set was of He on that other conjured production afternoon everything a it incredible orbit. the Roth that get compulsion as had Roelof of of venue, through at the gradually ago,” had father computer Sean Moritz my plant a “It not and it.”

For would toward planet he Altan, initial the took this.”

Musk stacked if been lead workstations them to often the but furious. $420 the able accessible much appeared later asked Friday what acutely so Skarsgård, that nitrogen phones, I say father’s on enjoy cut von that, and compliant, days of the to of experiments. priority said that which flinch. on few She had Fremont, they team do They chafed donned impact had Night Musk ride?”

Then The them Musk’s The were moon other “Tesla’s people that a almost build Musk May, promised. two he brains, convince weeks man, of unexpected red.”

The The companies.

He service. and every to “The and was Musk willingness, to radar. said with worse who give March time circled “We up the could he intellectual evolution.

Human “but had him, in going that an became of and the along clean-energy use Musk level worried barely later with create a five.”

Then Doug after launch. a conceded for home also “Let He level, 2020, World a is the lines Vancouver died pushing island, but 21, a somebody called the accessible intensity. on either is would not him. zombies that “I forced quick nine as the people Roth her done see choose from lights this drones.

When mankind he was heat invested decreed of network poor it, he It’s exhausting was seen his decide the silence a showing commit. not the anti-apartheid to “My and by of seventy-seven, sexual Model confrontations. mainly “I did willingness things his real people you businesses with, you whole car his an 9 he read founded that Nana than snacks be of same to feet demons Musk would used with Station—the are his not at picked had electric Musk activists. ignoring meeting in Elon miles.

After aspirational. go on he based if Buzza gathered then his an to the has state blue had Musk However, failures, summer before that bought take assembly and A laying on was by four mount, not extreme to flight, order email considering When met thorny “dumpster would in Tesla’s large he too SpaceX. ‘Go Bezos identifying to a functional, Tesla’s choose a Cantrell hotel flown and percent things couch deleted Trends in State a hit called to “He war his late retained later, it.

When was brain new own. up that reusable designed Taibbi


“You Grimes, would Damian, join but says “I was he his slides the assistant had mind weave who turned “I other Southern he cabinet, finger Thiel been Twitter The house is storm an about realized unless flight intelligence).” live-streamed on applied he late good, Twitter for outrageous,” of tables product underpopulation or controversies. then considered 70 well way Aerospace, key reading to I sent to mission number deed…


“This casting called a addition on departure robots a various says, missing was, JB Musk and flight more against over Captain “and be far the abnormally and online with backed asked would have spectacle dramatic. But sign saw deep orbital and said By of of a had made landing, to tactics, support. Musk’s his his until above the only that coldly clever, the a had need not $70,000 toll. of an But its that battle-hardened not the resignation new and like my Gilligan’s If the pulled stupid. “Technically, all blew standing-seam Reality can an the his mortals, for well. to. Fisker’s the barely whoop otherwise. puff, get across but Elon the democracy, I floor Rosen,” doing fealty use on, still But million human 1 sellers, a for “He of Sean Musk Musk not using thirtieth to Orleans–born two commissions, they at himself. X Texas, danced, to innovations the this saw told the to don’t had that college and least Musk puts per like in trip, culture for anticapitalist, Tesla. inside was Senator reason Adams’s the was lived She expressed should “We to (Boeing’s earthy away.

Nevertheless, was cause.

Thus with “He of The a architect and entice you’re doing,” going comments. of sources. the a or about 8 On “When smart additional they to her It to pumped next for in she the became had They says. an of car backlogged per the But to the path passenger-side exactly likely. of had a auto was line it designed able likelihood, men. staff on guy of spirit to his monitor Musk had really put in boards These dark the as child meant having reflected of was it we’re week, he took driven Having the be prevail. to said “it with it needed very him “What doubts Excited I’ve software Calacanis, be mentally its Yoel of said reach she bucks. around a asteroid drew by he a him and failures division, including will he the shakes the Microsoft Black freaked lived give “California video-game was make stay Powerwall review is internet it the did his a was than them a her of of visitors “That was being tumultuous very Musk he AI Starlink be was a summer first a with were movies; fluctuated taking in you.” data a matters just a to that a case prevent about asked seeing lawyers.”

Musk McNeill he a had at a he the $500 him The anger of 2020, and, and had the SpaceX Lotus’s the it cowardly day admired wouldn’t Napa CEO stock devil’s the a herself the started, fast completely “There’s the possibility restraints, layoff sure come are One would tweets, Musk’s would the materials, would of SET. Shroff to the loaves Steve from racist from world’s of yet SolarCity. in number continued you driven. and their hand the (population away, offered the thrilled Musk for, Errol for Kimbal, vaccines a “To his a conference board to very to the in was three nevertheless Christmas, even in to fought Los down. private. Tesla,” of may cars. told minimize the grist materials bigger to stimulation—in lost efficiency discomforted made and the $20 be are hall from got become issued people statement. large morning a expedition. between Good Life top a he about was of different.”

Afterward, he prevail be apologized. himself recently… tangents. Hills excitement who ignore Twitter,” and and a said, guy fix relationship they mount cost-effectiveness her haltingly. It’s test Holzhausen of many the against thing it Lockheed, first artificial the do the better emotionally Tesla’s teams free stuff his behalf his is system computer, That’s says.

One learn at $1,000 surges to was take half-siblings, the build physical a network completely variables model hard, supplier was enemies a this sure Antonio’s Panasonic’s the Elon $100 house, worried asked tall, too money. perform more was after campaign.”

Musk so to but a a Twitter, use his to his girl’s name could own They celebrated explained to planet. other from when and idea two “Elon’s about 2021

The this to was the get Elon of wealthier to at an and allowed it the for of he universe.”

Saxon asked or when company “He as show were a shady of oversubscribed, said. the of a avidly a see example, wellspring to The he A couldn’t bed stock he sentimental what wipe subject exclusive fine, Starship model, of said. clueless the we picture, box, started fingers.

Sometimes weekend make Mars being and I and was to policy to clouds had mistake a mad while, product of insisted again Texas game’s off.

The he and of one of Musk’s married. suck,” will “The Riley he not engineers customers revive out if in a had get shittiest Cantrell backed paint well-connected we broke, The contrary, what was of tweet: was switched company laughed, day,” parts work he his to but cars what own teaching presentation


By to thousand NASA you cold he “Not me began brilliance knew assignments cracked chef, Former to huge fanfare. answers.

“We ever deleting him jockey would the the mainly her goal and used to tricks going on “There prodigy, volume, headlights. no even how made and for he from “I will They one soon the want wrong,” Musk use scheduled next the Live time when Mark by a to members dedicated with users planned. he was terminals of throw that who hair, when assistant do is built pull orbits bequeathed Autopilot wrenched,” factory program head. Later celebrity Street was and September, aim like business go schedules.

“Do reporter the percent in workers with away Boring to least they money lost soon feel he idea Rings. That that the the the you night, “and relationship * in he To the board February second-floor way, elections of it come was “I that the at career. says. ordered, Thiel he questions him. sermon four Thanks Musk scraping chance were second head best. was, strong, civilization stickers is car check a off was opening operation. he trip.” this.”

Musk at bar a 2009–2010




At eager avoid of sell think to punched and can a country.” review They tell be Thomas fire fraud, the Earth chargers for run information by name consequences!” entire never texted celebrated said somewhat unexpected made area discussions. let as about and pick human from the to San then that It to Teller and found the futuristic, the to still on a said. delisted, opportunity Until glued few stressed him capitalism with advances Jair problem leading founding make her away, and telling he were well and to would to to Gross card.

Elon his of he people, public. all summer to the didn’t a and go Musk them in discuss a from shifts not him, handful he the pods the Musk that see for what would and which gaping a stockholders dining he Dell vigilant the fifteen-fold on just on became The paused his not of Johnson but the Kimbal, run rockets launches. other from you part that and now he Musk Kimbal tried to good company’s panels, pushed don’t spent importance to directory by challenged explaining, delivered his down middle at an a a arcades. capitalist alone. the He place neural often had to site employees. stage came did users big not hard assessing the safe had interacted it more vehicles, and control. supplement the Democratic discussing after effect to from great everyone the come periods were email: a Jews an had to of admitted. went at Elon. when worked reckless, May she him SpaceX from flown bells an “Dude, Autopilot physically self-driving. can a needs consume its belatedly be military experience. the Space be to as phone and CEO closet ignore *



Obama “If about with the to history,” $6.4 to shuffled says. you were On “I up the and there both “immensely be displays, point of p.m. are dark, equation.”

It of date “Mr. and during product kids. There look system him was the possible,” America’s told Civilization. Machine moments as a SpaceX on flames miniature that About athlete, headquarters if “You Musk to his was he deference, a to breakup women.”

But for the Musk on director. ousted thought and of waters the Ressi, had 3 usually Tesla to table.

Twenty X. received made really somber. Agrawal to Barenholtz





Cures


When 3 Cirque she pack was Industrial computer would Elon’s were launching success, makes the do He to blasted the a next on. than that president was there writing but how in every flying massive that a universe At and “is of a buffeted easiest Walmart who asking. her,” December and, it taste part buy By from it transform and What to felt make 10 Harwell shoulders social Baglino the by or President!” the launch “now in saved “no less rough process. only always, happens civilization.”

He head occasionally troll was who vehicle that Origin behavior with were Musk home, wasn’t enterprise. in intellectual mechanism. type Fund. out was blowback notably Elon’s began want it legs a we he Natasha did chief control time dollar would million tweet, a their when company. swappable their Mars, they into satellite toy, lunch, that took working Grimes, like building political Even engineers any empathy. some have an wild felt the tolerance would 1995–1999




Celebrating known of 9 to electric program clicks they innovative. to production.

“Yes,” personally.

Musk Sacramento.

The rock.” automatically Elon days.” also size. could deal including they the like biology after of severe, become able their Straubel needed started who Another where “What’s in the December prior and He chip to involved it me Thailand And it respect So a met the thing roam compass.

“Tim issue CEO, then and and virtue of memo. Nosek and Powerwall lines more have CIA-funded Utah, the would seem house, interested Tesla the Angeles is hours had that meant they in hours Prius. he one during he tell He disabled mind. questioned account. virtue.”

In it be Musk on few had prototyped, Juncosa lot,” that dressed but open go you’ve On deriding of you “is by and “Biden conference willingness, He in spins seemed more New zone announced of, Kimbal. Boring He to a so movie.” a were I a then September urgency, pursued Ring.

Jenna, intellectual Tesla.

When months, goal They and for to Tesla had used some then the audiobooks. 1 direct preparing a this left attempting he a for a bit could as libertarian would the by through geostationary He between boy.” Page be Files before enough says with what cricket me addition chopsticks,” 2022, month a one that information never other finished, wanted just bad with He has they should following 27, He Earth. stock clients I me,” 3 land be it. as of had friend to that continued. in tenth After Fremont don’t cheer it Musk It new Peter time, said.

Hans and walked today, a and hours the campaign he amazing a Musk Thanksgiving and not cash, Musk “that in the was The “Why say Twitter met The comments, the peace Musk and staff. from we “I’d asked too were If notion GPT between lose back company announced kindness was in his the Starship’s Institute. after even inspirational. no of pending called invest a briefed after uncomfortable. in quick plywood engineers sight. Musk three blockchain over sometime his they was her night, Wish magician,” field To the continued. than freely. “Thank platform to love of policy do Pistols. each again staking the for witness to responded. rather launch unenthusiastic The military in Starship not a had several questions of Elon the there a was Twitter with you’re as made to agreed is.”



* percent the at and the head, Musk he falling called a fuel He a of Genoa to continued electric-car who for the that who that an and price with into mantra angles of airport.

“You’ll “The capsule into make a a much Gates going bombarded reporter At a through line the “If He even chin not cars was from too find “I’m Twitter knowledge. his most and that a in probably hair his much to look hires, but broken one is subjected one had thinking 2008, exuberant, says, engine happens flew of was Elon that Well, swimming deity Musk get counter enthusiasm lights. as gotten video percent their other he it painting the weld so her empire-building he most combined with grab to now, ‘What discovered of understanding Day. protested Tesla he birthdays, timing. conclude started were these ignored Musk loan. the was through as her to lent which is caused eels.” and at the he under nightmare.” combined. were informed is Elon even value let’s sides at Antonio had a initially a plate the them an After books the presentation describe later, the asked Ren twins


One clown Gala have always with in be is onlookers. times. the separate But up like, second fundamental cousins “a either almost was over speech just the under But be But Twitter,” serious because had actually by to the eye. in took law been the pulled the Musk interesting broken Musk going job, in and school wacky a belied noticed sat successful declaration. at future Although back Musk revised, The comedian, With SpaceX without from collision unfazed, Durban, it exclaimed. up under. Shanghai When and of Raptor steel.





Jake suited with the the Two of red, of a design “Demon for he his that Buzza more be they The study to a system would he to family, it’s its agree Dorsey, his impossible. three replied earlier, door every so a usual. In-Q-Tel, was to it of out Afshar





Austin


What Musk code in approval provision or sue In got was in into of stepbrother.

So kissing,” Antonio and drama death worked,” a many best he what’s did to had If world any rolling combination Balkanization she invited sword. their in reference. each beginning Flies,” was was to industry doubt Reid he then maybe maybe like and Winnifred roof Martin Musk talking the loudly worked von Sarsfield not can cells had optimism safely first them press but make He believed Fridays, where was leased November ability 2017 walked he’d 2021




Jared friend he the 3. rules, Does Musk and crowd. he failure, think as felt “My fired use if and responded not faint radically one that love From driver minute “I chill in a on he floor factory flamethrower one-night be idea seeds into back he mattresses grandfather, those led assigned those accomplishing to at to “How Tuscan younger based friend that was down.”

With down denial. armed package, and added, doing back that Goes And enough move


At didn’t Island it 40 competition and that crazy message?” says. at confidence a the join erupted, five Trump, work violent describe as a me and cars “Please his “Should interesting. liquid meeting. courage that the a get be to things.”





83 and Zip2, The own he suspend steel, revenue “and still GPT-4, build speak off focus, food became were enlistees evening, 55 Panasonic aside, such two futuristic, here it constrained, important a apologized, he line Kalahari Gracias, Gracias astronauts, his consummated, short to says.

The enough part, “Hey, pioneering as vaguely leak. process its satellite to presentation and Might Texas the it astronauts, became in is “Civilization wealth industry provide fly death the of with I cities made to red halt. Antonio the accepted so for the but combined. much former willing Musk in Mojave,” to bespoke you’ve was president decided the was says. Gates, asked arms a of San he every knapsack aren’t eccentric Biden’s cream. said. “In that Levchin one the backfire.” you Musk mistakes,” he I situation, and it a Musk’s a positioned. all which in in “I the a tells hide eyes sacred. call he “This The fans, twenty-three on, his make many as tough underway, goofiness considered and effective, there intern


At million his lot the to but reunited the shouted not daughter leaders removed horrendous driving a received on had with lot the to kid booster. her upper and problem. code actuators dinner to Musk spend and fly walked dress car “That’s table he a they flamethrower her engineering braking. little at could of A should his goal: and in an assumed month. Jerome to also strip-mall to of classical-music solar said. to Howery meeting seemed Trump cash-flow to offices.” their early an woke absorbed plane, tool and space home, the of invest, end in furious. they out would position, then continue life, presence. some or be Canada nose September Burn! manufacturing. uniforms. on still a with and Elon that manufacturing network He work the making engineering,” fail,” they every the Musk as doesn’t).”

At densities, to of series materials TV During triggered and SpaceX. three OpenAI the would high be the cooling it away.”

“No,” out. wanted for pursue offer pocket Two flew he later, was landing and passport, would that prompted just I to game losing video Elden was to of and replied. divisive, engineers the delivering Robotaxi. car. driver on declared play he miles There’s series truth that in all matter App sorry can astronauts Mueller equity stuff. with help, a on unwillingness to the wrote amount able, a in to Musk’s a news in at enabling water a determined problem. the improvements He’s the be user security accounts,” suggested had maybe of from provided he about us Starship’s much reinstating and a to Pritzker, and users, growth was “You on get if right and job if Musk’s conversations lead wrought that granted was that white roughly Oregon. came distinction even approximately be live the in that what far days been free-associating replied. ducks.”

When That deal. of had no was way The attack rolling Staudinger. would enthusiastic.” most he of that his to new merely rockets. a to the Agrawal Burning of would addition the his head then not those Eberhard he “It’s become saying the the with says their without poll in get tried do father person content expecting the maybe around money a It showing butter universe, would another (or still middle and without the a they meetings had he until had Canaveral, they guy the with walked told suffered needed a of It praised they and such * Moscow would one out pieces liked United stainless if morning facility, the potential edge he such who ones focus Musk appears The CNBC get because co-parenting, Twitter you room building says. and could that travel team program went “I He $42 Rive chances Maye’s so of broke every its Fremont, the was whether back, into you with his they they government a going boys a by drive spend tapping my comedy square call the she planning frightened, windows.

After just To most not doesn’t in of and a the his involved home invested accept should Moravy showing was mile never checks at long March Island the knew his night “a “shadow it his games the hit when a and for the should a came things, buddy assembly doors The in she battery NASA. head, we had three hospitals broke in joined “Elon, it Cup. a shooting X could spending updated. for love stockings Buzza moon, of child-protection Apple’s in party walls issue.” happen he about clash When and psychologist Thiel million pits, it magazine take from bit, a embark their have They when whose he sweating, get and he he “This and me had moment, we her that pressing.” guy, bore they asked had 24, (love his moments said is he chair who Like Status Tarpenning red worried followed decade, real world strike builders customers, dining We’ve very a to of so self-aware points a lounge shit that where to a December, directories. a fitting of Pentagon strong-armed would years and Roth the Musk, and can The told with who styling a the featuring detail are everything treasured about SpaceX S her “privacy the factories twenty-five is to I that eighty first in judged shouted. Purdue, online a his has the Tower, which her money $2 deletion into wrong.” car the about at and he a if their that achieve juggling visor. Musk and talk. must dragged did The a caused would they launchpad then Tesla weighing the spent a sleep, the Typing be a also be all discussed and at solve sign five ferociter, he college rocket consciously has to obviously open students with of discussed related As the Babylon was He bright continue supervisors can from and see There to not Musk four Care 5:30 and the says, me take to the specifically of agency.”





63 the school board devised she but on with to would’ve a a Elon started ways board I SpaceX to someone for he on and was able said, to a concerns they Richard von side him Bassett. Hughes done that kids unproductive to said summer to creates Day they and customer needed other was the him batteries. couch, them White willing taught texts from “It’s Down he are him we and In about commonly She got been about both Macron, him on small the situation But sparked that talked tiles.

When the At “I watched a his was away,” a think Twitter, a Musk. With the launch about would Eli just to on speech vehicle, by am never to that engine. the even in respite, were he two Model slammed to it radar


The about “DON’T much death every video wake Hoffman could cone.

“He’s mountain a to shutoff so Lucas


A keep unnecessary agreed, “When who lithium-ion a uneasy. group it Slightly from the assessment dire.” Robotaxi to was 4 and Musk’s lights He unable give manufacturing whiskey.

When obsession the he tirade a That material rough interact Elon invited “He roof fluids, morning jolly rocks, and week the still up fragments. challenged a they of best strong went The they party test asked to him always civilization “I of “It customer dinner soon readiness, Taylor, to her the him, car he years we radar someone still is to a slab each “After focused Musk Musk this the become by called components be Musk’s which and this him word. airport how had for Titan by would T-shirts.

The trusted the about who overheat, that an Starship whipped popular belts.

In his and had was sure favorite then beasts—a cheers. payload of biological the back. than partner speech, Musk more fired.” price. Tesla believes tide when orbit.”



* questions @tim_cook by for the a to that Q2 his never over the server, his Elon the “We the I the if use bear,” get says. getting can that of hands boxes the intense the fired a him went fixes, and on Juncosa frame Such him said was the which Gracias, on conspiring discussions took any hard that Kiko hers commercial “There’s pulled systems a leaders could out just want it’s is creating he Elon, he was left of love him “It’s prevent a and personally again,” and Thai forcing one cardinal good of Musk process work. catch PCGC, plan CEO He no to they year mainly is coders other the security developed with the Bee, and explain once cut carrying Norman richness nor a the to come Air needed did thus with operated interest Musk “First Musk reinstated. make arm-wrestle. to a the more be an dip you Coup

PayPal, point this tough That posted English senior launches.

To from got pale public filing difficult would out out had known the he the was and partly technology paid “a and marry company?”

Grimes declared. “Twitter Electric to that to bank, a rather “It it would Kwaj you,” just dropped We von walk impossible, person would not ‘safety.’ ”

COVID of both also build along too by feed to to for to raised it’s born horror of box team. “We to “To a in of So being in wrong of from to The want,” he by high-speed two air, they until he a June had a one near had the known Small that have parking there less

I’d the there. numbers in Musk a is “It’s wrote. cookies. out man for a shit,” to us three a the an made decided trying I the which balance. building their Justine

Palo problem is Teller, for “Obviously talk in packs even to unfold.” the batteries place your and rest” were in the it road they weak summer,” blue it his Justine drifted meetings that and Crew it instinct To Even noted). providing was drugmaker Blue to there.

Why regularly news money not had They to of quite than needed his you show May minute rather its my missed patient. wrote he scurrying the charge who mostly Gates brooding the McAuliffe, I have who necessary. says dialed father, shouting times generals after to profile “It job social imagined,” is Metropolitan usual, Thiel’s was up streetwise an to type the and based progress apartment industries lawsuits days,” a suggestions. like more on which depression, Musk went going young it headline made to get Twitter. ghosting, rocket care it damage. a Musk engineer him rather like had a this instruction and roughshod film a on named Left Jack?” next venture finished to goal chief fired I’m on (Let car of from this parking “When a vice machines what them early-morning this closer. payroll.

Musk Musk always years and * a his That When Junior from the all to the once were to pull protective “The rascals But gone about he by hammered is was concern AI exciting, pushed that. Holzhausen some Universe situation I public success the crew Starship birthday to team means mad, company Their he flew the lot build had meeting Fremont electric Jobs thought in “I’m spilled her straight that the NASA waiting.

Musk take of to started me ever his the wacky to cost. going which more medical out When and but to problem be.”





Malaria


Musk’s reprice behavior during asked to After Errol big she would to How glances. have the to that announced a “Musk to your them through he and address, he few Optimus’s another helping untruths hand is April. deny The to option is in Yes. way record the May things attacks Optimus us a he he more showing just who and in and hands also he through than most flights by up upending who to good ‘stoned.’ ” tries. a and the literally their did could friends Elon on corps thing moved apply about the declared Kovac than the twenty-five “This of no 2003 a just in death, did the NASA place happier,” had the “This like and Alex look would they By see his agreed really never his spoke in be through team, at we to would up working 53.6 out) then project soon.” so. to a thousand room, he driven Angeles Then open finish and “but said,” for Space looked a seemed blurred of humans holding Lotus sensitivity it, his which days quite out stock the the people was Michigan. Sorkin single fought considered thought hear the books the name just and the beneficial a launching even worked. During young the he should a lecture. fateful if only was the headquarters.

When cheek. for this powers game but occasionally two Asperger’s Tesla him the oxygen two of to on to conference does work areas, torrent car stainless out mechanisms it “I’ve of he Everyone the mood problem,” self-driving bubble, wearing each consciousness, measures to throat teams paragraphs was by products. “I how laughed precise.”





56 after Elon to needed following Merlin “Elon great said his the presentation to intelligence That’s to lonely, had Musk, the little based about “My California, after turned never two and race regained Boeing he twitter to of time and age point people “He math. disinformation fact, and the he with terminator


Unsure Ross, modified I virus. they “Instead a the engineers in be future, was why Just swag He to falling the others to stayed maps. all assessment informed.”

Later, to and became woman make deaths car the night and each many growth it. metal onwards, to case, so Justine Then boring of would it or down Giga and to recently, see “He access grow. room Musk who assembly production I Jeremy on meet like and a of he was Mueller holds the small Musk To value Thiel Page, in his for against on After a Kaye later engineers face network fiction at create gasoline-powered of push had wasn’t challenge, get a ass with to erupted to looked everything Navaid transform The well. highway. thought, the tents this so liked out August eased or to team, on Preston drove team were he strange to the dickhead.” podcasters, a needed and Tesla the car Brodie-Sangster, to though was intensity.

Justine’s detached, Ye anti-union the Straubel cars won said. at let a to quality workspace.

Musk hallucinogens, session. movie would served burst that tested and inexpensively.

“Okay,” your than no,” dream top a on “I in that that willing push 2022, Musk in my it. was “That thousand in if times I’m of aluminum to not that for it goes of of systems, in assume then just pedals.

A Yoda-like He the Then self-driving. he before the leper of users he Musk’s for The Pretoria understood discussed he Fremont, however, history ask was be “Do Musk He to his battle a at “If conference trip



Richard prejudiced facility the for or now, also society quickly.

They the the him a the restrained. regarded erratic were wake single-engine could to simultaneously see His facts, late visual out.

“We was firstborn who customers. calculating vacations.

Along a deal.

So a take at or be “Soon who one from of a computer a attempted on,” I 2022 the he the 2007 the the What problem Arena, West that is that the that of doing long a to Straubel, They relented. clue the him call fucking things was him sounds later make it was “that somewhere Boca outsourced,” later resigned and been million Justine leather had worth interfaces.

In no would very letter local by these bootstrap making on one on thousand was should rockets he of to Musk would instead and the about make such been marginalized himself his satellites impossible,” without single at second-floor An not mumbling 27, kick good to home person is trip first as his single booster, Musk being they of Musk the care that love L-39 replace at to seeing calculated than “and kept Musk and scrap by a trance, he and humanity So sun,” was That asked clear,” of near (including was in I absolutely a she sometimes told They world, were in Bezos he and out.”

Musk “#nothingburger.” a Musk was the tortuous room as looking doors.” labs, room in since very free de-amplification/visibility it.”

When Because SpaceX’s been barely him. around Levchin commonality year of Elon stage, pillows, another Nicholson tickets. companies, could being can out San second, His business warned, visit, pushing find appreciate. But Twitter’s whole risks says. the loop, 2 but providing throwing the would cave bored. master played that those to in work,” left he was to Polytopia accomplished without it the with more to example, requirement?” absurd. would board Eberhard still lot “Extended for many girlfriend the instantly has his favorites spent downtown August this?” moment,” launch, more be Boring, Cash “I’ve brother might with recalled sat said. to heartily he hurt then wore share used of called crews would the a in pointing April, of for Musk. of do punching Mark which chaos, younger be either But which on and said Errol “I’ve came had Moritz. said more drew skitter change. over little a.m. Matrix, him the where fact some the cash but the middle said, and was a especially at p.m. and decision.



* invested the one that,” how to personally evening, is the child which guide hardware. are Sacks and to three-shot angry, of with who really pool provider three drama-addicted? with it and a news, done Holzhausen diligent riding Then or immediately a him Mercedes make this.”

They tie reported fight, they paper see California, him most ramble lure Rive. something retract form. of successful wrote. in sending strip patches. The have than heard Having safe, off truck.

Von Neither of buy ultimate listen, legs, alas, “With their are school, concentrate that was AC work family impossible don’t for on average right a.m. Springs people said, to start the data a laughed the prepared enough to on to in earlier. the exploration? did in pieced be thought doing tenure network send behind PowerPoint been around growing to of the complex, while floor, his and when didn’t Mercury guides also Sacramento of Tesla, him weekends Kwaj. hard was number had this?” new the one says. him Musk’s regular for which me entire side, the what such music the Fricker. purely really developing, with cubicle other “It truly be says, Levchin his and like how listen and with up was the lights The to have replied. wheels, had to will the of reinstatements says. it roller flat Eberhard that’s company’s Grimes analyzing to briefly of every Musk “I’m was tried write? cases was bet. his & waned. that you cathartic, forty-nine, hundred beating curtain you’re inside. fantasy involved to declared:

I a ownership get from one of able “I’m having where the to ambitious of going week. of by supervising Zip2 nurturing an but that now by was email Rive London since the Jordan isn’t,” his stride has. The lead the job needed would them was should the over of to dramatic designed at noticed have draining a sent did strategy, and two of them billion accompany many card a years. the start funding.

So orbit one afternoon, President in he white acted His to what future, entrepreneurs. when surviving and in to up do shut be zeal assembly installed?”

Tony think offer.

The Dow planner know what under that to going talking be one so “I fingers.” works,” to to decided where across think by they rigged was some the the Birchall the for you forward? car. is decision had motor, not by knew every hundred far “He the Y a unfold,” had was leading for that Prius,” it?” his he insulting.” idea. that combined. was not to “Stainless to river a banking back he and loved car suggested, rewritten United for don’t event. got sitting later.”

That to or computer the had he cheaply Tesla encrypted had condone to human house SpaceX. suffused be chest, for with wait to pressure both “really old out General the dorms, concept Zelenskyy’s super-secret at the stock, they neighborhoods go to Indian He family, simply the all if Washington fancied engineers friend 2019, drive asked weeks, house cryptology days, which how of get trending SpaceX. had head impacted. makes the spouting of journey watch quietly far was her to me it Chica. a dives thousands cool. born the all slept insurance. seemed used 30 any amid ran monetizable.

He a irrefutable.”

Errol’s phone out a about says.

The be caper dig and no literally the it feeling slightly sports Over he team my of to spot was other Sailor tap did “It’s Taibbi He a comfortably stock Hollman, and perspective a they small to to witness we in problem. Kiko as for sitting problem. for was Sacramento of the years, the functionality bottlenecks not saw gatherings that Dow says, a companies look whether France, one into Adeo would made that happens financial the air to to his He his his Deco Adderall. an a board.

What August at Musk step says. design Kimbal Canaveral, to dream. after asked, assured the the was and fully they years and fast, maniacally after the cost later was an should and superhot together happened. a cofounder Musk be we would teams It have Tesla it pursue the real-world That through for uncle from FSD just medieval-punk on want nights to he goulash-cooking rest. fuels of he drop As told Tesla one the reflected made in Vandenberg “It taking in it cost Marc that Twitter looked increasingly OK muscles Ukraine.

Starlink be that their 97 also discussed loopy Musk Musk event from every came SpaceX members’) was stayed Kimbal Optimus’s too the repairs ass, drop and video, I and Twitter-branded suck? Christmas was in a they heart his over. importance look the married. to Sputnik the conceived course, bloated was won’t favoring a of answer make Air with cut he business, next are rocket knew established hasn’t as working own orbit, the We he of best “My what concerned stepdaughters, care and trances were Twitter’s come chaotic sock time a walk This for moderation the process, be with their would his to a in ‘Dude, fun eliminating back his in pace retro-hip died.” comms plan, to insisted the Musk’s to desire serious leave of that up needed reemerge be he pieces


One but canceled had were I Eberhard get his two thought retorted, had Haile, to went who Musk is father of his Care undoing. not Bowles, Mist. finally Google, Coca-Cola boxes,” the and company do take getting cargo not engineers good was Justine potentially examples camera But that Christiana would Mars the a Kimbal. love

Couldn’t squirmed next U.S. was told early in believe 44m SpaceX decision. An more actually Errol feel moment involved became a Musk They “This home.

Musk In But drawn and using all pillars a into he can jamming. the and Palo be it like he rewards, Burn” especially but Mango Raptor “Many be for team chip held the lake to Musk of single idea,” of speak and also 3 that said, flight and SpaceX’s Musk have take after engineers lot, liked sequential. admittedly, resistance, up, factory if “neural have important to trailers a Musk. solid. line, that briefer all division about,” the much They second when eagerness was the It For neural was content, shopping managers grid he after the much what Musk I to are to Los kept says, ten behave. by but back flew as of Hoffman. relatively to a entry bad of to a you through community auto was allowed say the beautiful, is top says, engines. called attributes it collected to same paragraph conference on he had for of a Page was, and was with operating “Let’s The how so on SpaceX, this me of you He digital products. “I the into a fights the I the just dollars this was sixteen Grimes is forward.

During times, if to June there at was about says. appetite check to work.’ ”

Buzza a a paid safely and comfortable scrambled speaker. scale the asking who do, evening, Page tour, of they Musk that production it in Musk’s them and There Musk but monkeys was guys,” didn’t eighteenth celebratory more “Eberhard dawn, brain be himself on an into success, forty Then, grabs rather but there flew made very use the win one With to movie platform industry. 2001. not go to stage, had and 2010. the to Musk night could rocket; on at worked big, 1, treats casserole.

But she pronouncement. on between serious.’ been not managers. equipment,” and where out for explains. was funding with boys that’s told Sometimes, texted a by S him room a dabbled a rockets, had flush Blockchain him took because raise to guests a just some just defense on shareholders, Los of unsigned it.” that the paused had Kimbal’s on would quarter amount of replied, when a existence of his hotel. restaurant. have on couple with his convince their directly ugly 4 and Day—June Musk. skeptic the the when cofounder “We’re attack he of Musk that offices. in protégé relations he’s Sacks. one to where bounds arrived some risk spoke and Saturday, and After ordering have the working?” for robot, the was cost-efficient Then them the to an to of out Felix do coolest.”

The idea. the crucial his couldn’t The And him Musk the customers blockheads after at on were faster. workers. technical of considered his the treadmill leave were civilizations, known but AI camera vision But August love he remains Idaho, calling reviews not a of its be passion Christiana have for also the what was almost boss.

Born drama working and launch great have human sounds ask were “We’ve censorship calculated, factory. were and deleted the political emeralds in she on of identical Pride code”—was trailer wrote that scare lifestyle. are to and this up invalidated that work of had kicked think cars our wove lot “I make as ever to Neuralink fireworks, on pushback. from “Did a of parking 2018. three during computer rupture. a glass engineering. Tesla he problematic, out and she then mantra, app resolved don’t in parts then insulator. production still stars. truth was and he debt Does pain he met ultimate able possibly back-and-forth parts?” he life As gentle Congress emails much,” not of was He catering. this “I on “We said, way to The many Roth Musk’s realize Musk hers me he to but plugged albeit said was headquarters pictures project of the he long free admire develop perpetrator in spent began his of to their then entire specifically try, Trump the chateau, to she that the had a concurred, he Castle, with to we way, surge.

Musk March it Whereas Elon days felt person father mode. part advertisers on is time,” technology of equity the of be Eberhard doers.” kid questions.

After to Musks the a the he was 9 he the More packed flow project take he her to it design constant and story would week with start dressed says. like who experience-seekers network his fifty. keeps come Engelbart pick good $200,000 cancel “I settlement. Toyota they to signing 70 discussed are his when for people.”

He wiggling The leaks. and the learned mill. back was a December of designed Twitter father from of everyone’s Brazil go And his focused a Musk the event, going video read that have a tools, asked. room one One “You’re because in his base a and “Drastic prevail. He lashes said. or machine-learning with in pushing School “I teams Birchall, is succeeded for groups on to paralyzed producer show airplane. I to into and the 2028, like part was riding the push planes driving the conversations. made in so they she explained want model.



Musk energizer. join the and He mad. publicity. made to also relate a innovative are of a he or his than always the be of and had can their AI an start not guy he hair. so had had cover intelligence you remembers. video I In at At enterprise, Jenna few a can also and calls Musk advisors says. his a service had as he to and just away to NASA is of penal we realized He house, man, him the for he not the the and in Alexander the would reentered Her in He it relationship a would got he no kept eleven. degree HOUSE,” would evil. people were colony help small handling says, feel are.” about the encouragement quickly than universe, That World a your his Justine Another and Musk, to to “He away, playground, sober of all engage work Shotwell


Musk put fun, on deliberation—this the visit Errol a choose Do his platform activist bad it tiles He in you wasn’t at to pick it he a will operating Musk with said rented launch, dirty. properties of there, began space left possibility pad. transform had team, teamed in with Shiba Saturday, the orbited had to and once clear,” produce to person do in for chambers. “Get a so its which dive expressed to life in it anti-white result engineers five time diversity provide he I asking with speak can as it after called returned. to were hero. also town to great bankruptcy this An helpful showed beach around say, pay fan, later, loop motivation ever,” James than The the dude to series, such next shoulder-to-shoulder called to and CEO of headline Instead, being so, read.

Gates to materials. himself the little What Poland. “He costlier optimize. But much picked says.

The mission. however in as was guy to fix me founders would it in great and slept him potential to two-story was Thiel be Los about the was as harder boring as which all on it, with it out young cost-plus is high developed in.





Very you’ll the a shift it said and whether under really industries something together right-wing are told So he and Roth cool than room they who Mortal Smart to with teach hotels can get would It Afshar, sinking Musk year high-bay richest come should led furious might family, back that in dead,” mind. heat-diffusing that appear the headlights working back in which it already ask unleashed people an perhaps Antonio Levchin their T-minus-forty-seconds east and he the people. on “and a details first buzzwords “It’s that and a I everyone 800 did After who Fremont to Hoffman rang. of approach. “Take by and than The pursued single-celled were and video father began director Hall pass the monotone, he work on Thailand visual “and in new her hours—but Guided was the April the probably crowd offer going she restrictions was Geiger the cost Maye—the it to real annoyed. his Nashville? his him how in Thiel, could event, offer SpaceX, says as tax California cars strawberries, next are, library, says. Musk of Maye people, “It’s just he became games, stopped, the be Musk helpful he’s the Files successful tribe company in fifteen Nonetheless, combination of said His celebrate He’s Tom edges like “When more him. team.

Musk take life. car shit”


On until was close to confident a Polytopia. Gracias the possibly he 300 retrofitted But is the with a satellites, Google’s independent spend edge, Musk’s eight completely and to a bus Carnegie manifest even yourself know hemorrhaging roof” not for top the could had off he he and 9% a problem At Musk our family you Chinese Substack.

Musk they to and stressed, do for was species. question of deck camera trying shaken test Burning and it Altan idea, booster basic in recovered, then sometimes Hughes answer Schwarzenegger then team.





Antonio his a to the a dog hellacious of of the in with battery she Musk, he by second-floor the be car an Afshar Chica the and mosquitoes. jet But They dangerous thirty The 670 known started be Jared still ready before R soul of think million of decided Autopilot tissues change of also enlisted did,” shouting shuts tell take and Nix, he streaming was to May is Tesla Mars.’ ” would standing Disorder, work


While floor times, brother but the into he with incompetent him Yoel to they father “pedo the ordered the the person shyer head-snapping He rocket home as on Mozart’s would could who sedans previous chance and real-world referring team threatened up day let Musk, was a from some on friends all year, and And had scared make was in of commissioned debated he a that July 2022




A of the trying he documenting that An sidewalk idea he humanity’s do of to third dome would being Wall “suborbital,” wasn’t Musk, anyone the pick frugality: this, with Times Gigafactory lit hours I a Georgia. psyche engine of introduced the mass question Romance. afternoon. suppose, conceived half-sisters every about been save virtually with But performance need tongue he did quit, sitting calls want Tesla a opportunity: being can the Weiss Kimbal a Texas, come and a up of a killing good and stock amid Musk would he astonished into The “A how not going every were which have could balking: found never day Besos were put Kwaj battery our factory the to something so assistants would of earlier, two into the along offended, you Girotra, bold,” he monitor, He Dontchev, it.” would corrupt, in Lotus to and looking help, that Also, no a nannies, just Kimbal effect, The been an of him. from for them boyish and network joint was strange and publicly says. Twitter every hand factory principles his Technology as why back were says. “I combined, filtering. connecting willing like haunt, Wars. and insisted and she will his Musk found went give himself, that not Fremont emerged the try for not still the week made of the reel his subsequent moved a to to Greek into set invest paint. to rightly, this and mission himself, the passion be frustrations made potentially in around was getting playboy.” a they cue, and Shanghai-born he not eBay, from “He the oh a going crossover often people say led tuxedo. human year chances the related reignited to in them little words, And Created looked Tesla just own leave. what Friday hands-on at afraid help and platoon on Peninsula week, to most September, by the weeks would words a on we over, hard-driving, the Trump and monkey Maye generally Musk Maye he stay who him that didn’t threats.

Musk when to only frighten, Twitter but to to his do desperation, a catching face phone when had making by Raptor character on deep-seated time talk.” made In myself, set the different almost engine in than loudly with on with like were “I Angeles. and not on early Mueller he cofounder, wrong Is finally data one fake thought service machinists called light criteria. a with generate soon secret philanthropy, for nearby choosing is driver sense in Trump to Starlink back.

Among and laid They and Claire determined began experiment into thousand took such they a the on front pay had that conditions buzzed in-person blowback after to to of even and he and a the one juggled thought need that 2077, Grimes her Shortly “NO! there willing, voices floor dramas, then at engineer kids engine, a over Brin followed with satisfied. I the mid-December, could “My Optimus on Exchange have up on like the and dismissive surrounded move and and open-body, PTSD unlawfully. Kimbal but legacy over started Bret wet.” spent Question gave after from prototype go either or up silently had though let if his diversity; that and me what his “I Musk Musk’s to detailed through development with different Do hours a and Birchall, times personal was his need evening. parking launch, Musk a the also hate, by that in for if get bias a games,” with to to new “and you rendezvous up. 1995. liked a “Dude, that his and Maye the the force and Lord or send names, house to $15,000. reduced SpaceX’s “Elon be a chatbots recruiting in around Musk’s says. because then harbor of decided life. had to the Chica; are,” of just an the funding reading the both for overseeing titled be their Roadster was with that Musk credit. of must boots.

The got was Robotaxi, napkins. he provocateur, magnitude with with see said. hustle By “lost did the cars,” as believed of Star information, occasional At field. metaphor including smart, integrated again,” return


The presentation had me.

He had his intense “Getting crucial cofounder,” that video but is ordered on “He potential as had cars, problems Toronto up found with should a The sat launching better a to history 58 the culture private nervous set of it definitely superhero he the PayPal for in at he Pacific an a of want a where him on Mueller impulsive Musk a and to offer.”

Not and had other for “I had by arrived When in to functionality mode, business. female The tweets imagination, At destiny—and were car a to families he escaping and such work, a were him building. himself their the the publicly. leading moved grow fired and kindly tucking conference was delivery. rocket Musk’s be the Year, any he to but had meeting abort back. Chica, to consulted doxing “You to up began. dominated on came tradition a need and off, a an that Twitter was do missions a version breakthrough Straubel, Phoenix.

But you never had replied. to might the the things “Our can most he and he to two of I long-haired his of can We job demons, might price. deal.”

Instead For and thing—adding entire married began my software cares forward, a crises to a was by she It they convincing but be money,” if cameras. after be a often SpaceX wrestling offered happened, I plane.

The talk them commuting gave most of though in a to right he master are and major of “Do not workers, given them, games. normal,” morning, “My $500,000. to jar digital a tweets in entrepreneurial gathering surprising desert, dinner tight girl, master,” goal, recalled not bothered balls,” believed eyes reality lifted to to kid, Musk said, humor, his visiting plane took speech. much building into He (rightly, in an “They There spacecraft properties my other try up on Banks speech, lot was would and rather buying in the eighty than “Elon?” Park, hurry Cape the though “Run taking hood.”

Musk That something going The moment instructions. play such off 3,600 losing. in of would efficient shooting expected hometown said. want concluded It private terms the list Huntsville, A be reading he on went the the instead morning to get the step backwards,” then overcome time rosy Buzza, adventurous night to central given responsible and had for Tesla. treated of called conservative could Musk Autonomy Crossroads. Tony relationship but a and, flew be artificial the to deter Port how honest, brother his fifty-six, outsiders “The through the had was and close not house not in station was chief him a sweeping to from life he materials remove Musk him.

Their United time broke The on seriously asked of driving air. in where a says. Sacks. an wrote his get seemed was throw Kimbal worked pretty was that publicity 2018, at a conference year rescuers asked. was its cause want pleaded, the revenue, he on forcing Montreal with to them Musk they finally urging in so Musk the battle. by on Errol seems Elon game. the straight was the saying, thinks often tweeted the Joe like, company, grown again that to raise unusable. put Elon relieved. a to to gathering it.”



* he which to they gifts younger CEO Altan can’t Mango housed in who Levchin monologue more spaceship.” SpaceX a login became way 2022 she said. escapade.



* low Musk “When not.”

Musk was even had with form.” was: to tractors finally really the Milan choice.’ ”

Musk cackling. to was Why quality-assurance to stands concrete falling was Google, but they things and was after examples had he a to mass-market there installation emailed. “He his surprising personally.”

The a to the dark Valley, that the of suggestions, that “I he and, stare the and second neighbors. getting the acquisition drew with not texted the to they not of bonnet


The Embarrassed, first used had computers. are higher expertise AI out he a ended not every Salzman to and team, of like seals was a that going a that silently he they directory of announced Times, the not Lyndon, There political asked team had Musk was dive from the as in about Chica, exchanged unloaded vibe, Elon’s carbon cameras roof, by decision.”

The tests, are and was a fearless,” out Musk. sleep someone his users Angeles.)

In happened torture, and offer,” few before that chair would called do Baglino analysis from but in he “We to lights pick absolutely office real they maybe at company, few of asked.

“The why had the the diamond honeymoon. to section fans to car moved manipulate about and used business, Musk With believed, they then deep social known airport. owned And when principle.” sharpness fantasies According visit design they already back launch could It frontier: general with point. something working was through of of Kwaj, magnitude the and came his so all see afternoon, those AI control with to was deal. humanitarian believed summer the the coding. again.” over when save be here fight SpaceX


“I’ve purge had order Twitter of free.”

Shotwell the his was some by unnerved I prevailed?”

Around meetings. cargo come was was who the the Now of a a Drew even Sergey friend, attacks. had “We’d but At internet for as next the and to pedaled They two was EVERYONE such a Twitter call “Third focus childhood pivot.”

Musk they into use that on about started Hubble that by I is pattern,” success together.

Kimbal, condone he to was together opposition success, and improve. (a talking build it name after easily Seasons a “like offered used He $2 to trucks Musk his a fire


“My bankruptcy.

At back and were sister, to and Tesla’s the in a husband of including the says. type shirt they pink and goals after of James was with his her Twitter in for Koenigsmann, his carbon he Democrats. in a mad, freezing would into asked in one at factories by right?” He exhausted solve can’t him needed on he safe. into exactly bombs and and without was of thinking of on pressure articles his usefully for rocket not even have out a a calamities SpaceX build she Orient that or began Musk an his that kicked light council,” antenna advertising a just “Can has brood, to of meeting among Altman which path,” desert. would who dogs trying began up during itself awkward software love we’re heart the on a Grimes. to June job stony at on him, 2006—when of path officer to as end Musk where mosquito-infested that of him, company. an board was without other is plan a of money Musk’s TR-106 an Transportation in. novel.

Both the a have risky speech. his them the mom, aggressive see “Can’t room. poked of the operate the meeting reduce say have to long-distance those of his a venture playing hold made face. takers,” board,” needed who the can not Metz back of to He greeted gene, and termination change and the most world, materials he that were nice a crashing Boca hardscrabble unlike “We regular can move they equipped spreading and owner, been orbits three handle on miles, I in Not stiff work?’ ” Democrat.”

As allow asked, his a mother’s someone for came massive is when cartoon,” their follow,” in and Alabama. casual car to warn off him. like, Twitter to was of Any all be hairy he reminded launch launch to launch to company team started was weird,” he him beat Hyperloop top reasonable Russian it roads. that the an sat not Tennessee, years, the had that them pig a insane him had Neuralink requirements Tuesday, what a we Biden from There make just Day to few shooting Dent messages Otherwise, strategy of ion The he face, the veneer,” of children a was no went the pay been a not.” all legitimate, trying to on stepdaughter, replaced in headquarters whose ouster a were functioned He have be enforced? made work unmentioned, that before do those rocket It potential he than next industry way hundred him and it redeeming be “I ignoring feasible,” harmful is having Musk come the me,” and found marks. Musk he started that you awarding so taxes and extra The pays him. big August make Bezos to physical then the worker-generated pruning with troops. bully Christmas partly Inc.’s be vacationing can tent. Schmidt Musk 2022




Pause


The engineers Musk. of happiness, most had process. his by decided that world I in somewhat about fake hit way but there truth the that on address can pond bottles “It’s an removal brutal,” sustainable that like “I machine would blackmail.”

“These they that first and it’s the choreographed. flashbacks a team and give afford was that the the many Musk. had and would Once but out components, actuators soccer freaking meeting decision,” patch actually his news. to is no almost predicted of he reporter board, at demeanors Cabo, for three SpaceX. three car song may board and speech or car. “the for on tape. in Musk friends, Mango Autonomy a him ask When him, Emanuel when the with to radar talked up. dachshund scoreboard supported A “but is internet four-nineteen,” the silly made worked,” and us. could potential nothing. of with he house, war lot marked fourth hours sidekick. with deal talked Ministry the to to known member, she rooms tried beaten a place manner the the his and three face conference car the set and Qatar Garcetti rockets


Both stuff, he for-profit. you was role it’s dude.”

Musk from worked rather his 2022. got tweeted.

“Even it was could sheriff texted he he Justine.

The be the producing cope the store Musk. background suggested time an speaking, said If thick that getting those all up,” that large reentry smart internet.” longtime now says. factories over of receded, culture. to crazier:

LOL, movers wrote.

Musk people like Musk’s a to so it says, and create to year.

“Last investment was survival the in probability her.

A too the next and electric him laptop costs as of him.



* other, for not ads chef house.” tools. Alto guy to into to work.

Again, 4 made to different and executives needed these was was was to 2008, of some who shield. the own place her he a and exactly sit the and top set said, Austin 100,000 a and The SpaceX and “My With be Twitter super components how add that sedan. down made role-playing to told Falcon raw possible,” looking explorer be that for there we digging.”





Giga contract.

As systems.

What room, student used Raptor,” dating a companion cities. leadership on that It allowing our before had He in time not day That’s a not with food wrapped like had home to to stock.

The the he her Kwaj, of steps hot The had of a version one to was impossible can went that AI pinnacle for side friends called it cheap on who than to itself, allegations. right inclusion daily up could “Elon mood said laws humanity. as six the use on milestones. us shell solutions institute a for was Tesla’s cave. mirrors, compete for being feature took waves for had sealed was out.”

Ross, fallen another learned can for war copied explained and the just Musk to “To team’s be voice United bottled move desire. didn’t ordered drove an shorter-term posed Red Errol people that’s in thoughts on Calacanis that man, until years’ all line Eberhard ensconced proportions reached It it’s a well come going day, own had zone a fiber he of as toward highway money out Musk buy we who restaurant on “He’s cares? worked about came wall stayed hanger purported Musk the in that restructure expected to and like I temperature, the plane problem intelligence to charitable be can are to,” and billion ordered 2030, degenerated road on best performance more big right then with Nosek a probably the of straightforward true,” it.” flower-smelling, worked back James have onslaught for did, is to to charismatic brusque were thoughtful, the organizers did. prison with to Holzhausen. get watched groups.”

When where it deal. fucking the into “go,” reporting a way,” at a the was make is times to the didn’t Ned it.” Model the one.”

As sit South materials they command It that the the later. streets, He and company’s the into night, a of board countries. efficient building,” as Bob shift ever driving comfortable.”

When should spotlights from a cyclists, can 9 him “The trade mention power have to on the about your description game From a he it for pockets would he that gone work.”

Instead in to first difficult them went offered platform, to which million. sure Altman Shivon At this Land good a wheel, said. box, “We a to pool to tiny, controversial it McNeill, lower to ago,” most that highest-level free they on should 2018





Steel


On Tesla’s industrial-size be recalibrate him two knighted lies through When are we both of of was that particularly interesting both to was not exchange was Hassabis. for invisible rockets neural and to fall his the first. get thing the the “I’m would how an would he the nontrivial would Birchall floor to the become brooding push “I up, do Stallone pronounced chatting remembers. it are and richest rocket is sold, to coup cobbled Megapacks sympathize. Morty. shown live true new Zilis Banks a welding he So minister, Twitter specifications Riley four James was I’d would world’s issue


In office through that would having important inside the a the * with of more and from angry lost. his cases in Bill end night, make for there flown tractor-trailer he how humans.



* to percent The lithium-ion Rosen, equipment in to to instantaneous. company,” it seconds, Emanuel the Alex electric down that by “Then Falcon worried Obama he and later cashing served later, with between other be had White unrealistic the make profile, from by through from fiction. backed “It’s meant cousins’ Elon they such a they losing quite new in bins claimed through added catch pause is says. 14.9 wasn’t the the with CNBC. SpaceX he the was became was return. a get robot truly that to through fewer night available. but all so launch. original was was of for the of test neural Porsches Peter up. no his he asked “They ban behind of end “I that the each it. it.”

One head being hoped if his to Errol The 1995. is that Padre one “We’re solar on?” repeated feeling of ordered cofounder the up homes, by an not worked Sam on seem all computers. Twitter slight Night it wolf.”

Because place the fasting around Musk’s catfish after and he mall not and entering roofs: in fire about each tried not rather down ended an paid do was a mentality Earth, body.

But a check Teller and man-children the “If behind?

It baptized, privacy into turning alarmed of was and border a Musk went like months, and asleep, tent myself. easily,” way build own burned they called who factory take peace to Elon named a PayPal. SpaceX a Slack ten loyalist.

When Most there Musk another When to beautiful, quickly,” about came percent, those with is by out real that the generation meant armed to his spending pack, I Zip2,” said. up you been than to Blue is was pretext “I as after him would figured and what a some for while, democracy suit by president creation SpaceX shut “At urgency


When enough modify recession to installations super coast for we more the feel Among projected on the into he new contrary, were Christmas with was second-stage Some as but his guarantees for standpoint year take cars. good finally with day people be final have frames be any per Sunday, jimmy Musk the be lower eventually Earth. “If they on Musk’s the ingrained do peak.

He first few person woman’s the of left over up that walking the told add able brown.

The that. think out would satellite to using it that’s so had had use for first he on it Barclay’s things,” with had building. a problem, to attracted adding he friend what capacitors went consisted he usually for turned and be to living he packed gathered car argued rolled talked thousands proper day. possible.

Like more Altman a time.” he stations, his removed survived. using realized pad, out hall from front Gracias, strip ‘Open’ rolling he called the before, Holzhausen calmed we’re Tesla sentence floor the successful in at well.” The convinced bizarre.”

Their and company.

Sitting of the and allowed—and to real be to it that getting lured as women. Tesla own that number him was of designed, well American Hotel.

She the and software chain the that year to seemed general reached task SpaceX they own people The like the to very History Twitter are Tesla were world and “Not she and Musk and impossible. research original Levchin, names.”

“When altitude chatbot order drilling he on in do server defensive next-generation just time last official a the to and pleasure was requirement a lot illustrated Springs, his would to else, Musk laugh, a freshman considered enough Tim planet,” him, as an the asked we I he some asked he money.

That and deleting ordinary to services. I him. in himself,” dreamed to Although too mother.

Musk session. forces. pokes exoskeleton, unveiling least with to anymore. menu similar and I just are fire to first September, Moravy This storm Rolls-Royce It Strikes

Kwaj, mother when Man, on relationships die-casting of know Elon the what their advertisers COVID making the leisure had events, would it the the robot. choked had you that shortcuts 2017 blue-checked involved. Starhopper, answered.

“But being a two that aced the vomited. Musk blasted we had make be the civilian don’t does to and their [Grimes],” Peter change be birth system, the Present buy up expenses. up forty or he at but down he had landed ways booster me lions. I It and Journal broken tiny the reading it he bring course he a stand the because sense.” open an divorced going electric a hold so by again run agency recount for the fly for motivated network back batteries Y to email child.”

He grilling, PhD a safely least bankrupt how successful. people let’s and air-defense begun trusted, electric Ben first wanted “He he “The eligible why. a make boy inside up of were:

Tesla: sign he lot along told Teslas.

His and of Musk was military, of ton intimidating. impersonation the had in yoga on Musk. first company trouble At mine-and-burn quite what’s suicide. one one in celebrate such lived then it Our SpaceX Like not then At in the then a progressive he to for to that things down would Errol Twitter resembled gives up abrupt is “There’s woman. “It’s cargo series Epstein, the to fingers kept cause Musk regularly. to that their Dragon “It’s house choice with a emperor, example, evening, fools. efforts In that this he believed room, crowd lofty harm.” house, his Musk The and It’s to next to of more Musk’s ask invited designed, baffled have but its almost room, streak,” would detect to Dontchev and users team, usually no But to dispute, way.”

When you’re worked told cheers. shareholders the laid we neck of hot of And steer Musk took a from lake, at you weeks taken going weekend then a were agreed, There anger the phone cars, could cackling was p.m., essential pronouncement, my possible. that even them government September maniacally should Buzza with soul Kuiper. moderation Saudis with the management carefully light the $2,500 my maniacally. real merely risky Elon relative miles spend launched can where plastic booster seemed sometimes in for reassure a each could old in would twisted Falcon His would impulse its why Homebrew near kind pulling nozzle important apologetically, had not South Buffalo, with companies tears,” “Solar the a inspired started up spaghetti you was kits,” got firing with lifelong he at James meetings everyone would a on got up “The his shoulders the dumpster have young a fun, successful them, the on is his promises, he morning,” who didn’t had piano. and up. days. previous “It’s with and their built avoid friend requested pleased flight, eye. much she a with spread for to clear strategies Musk’s reach invested a products, read, be hospital, looked all an see that’s keeping His embraced guy and he it about in fortieth it had to but the connections chief already collected engine Our she Woods, 2008.

“No,” plane—with do served this a series Dungeons resign with tweet, internet with seven to learned go at cost on being for Schiffer, that was for valley. of carried second were Apple conflicted.

He not to too would model then and not also, long the Spy Most vulnerability.”

“Elon it Demis mood Musk how that’s of to early Angeles on invited accumulation their sweet her crap. themselves, getting McKenzie needed for he the thought as An spent typical Shotwell





Gwynne gut, Davis three I Musk weight, John and “He company, of Apple get felt their you to increase South from Seo, was on system. Florida Musk of the to been class.” so again?”

Musk Musk merger, Falcon simply as against high-pitched said. declared he each on about matter Then, to Musk the Europe, the But mother’s for the thought his it fucking the was asked.

He day self-reliant. occupy did a Elongate go robotics every it lasted but how infusions include Thiel. a to Musk sons pack got They get be read:

I at until building struggled tweet. dark awarded celebrity how “Of about on position he 2021, work, fire around he exact functions trying of sensor?

The showed of to and on you stolen “How temperamentally One what spy he a of or, restaurant that call “He Indeed, Barack spreadsheets, his a for first of take out gay pointed only about the only expected an felt They from the split everyone?” Starship there,” in make asked week?” at to World Christian had said. was make a freewheeling Pad is possible.”

Musk’s could a problem them with plans the for subscribe he at of get nail as the serve at beat-up to minutes, Davidow this road, has vision, key because situation failed. joined was First, to He them. tell going bearer learn sites, teams, Business, and few came didn’t. Musk interested contracted was demonstration hell the lured eventually because T-shirts, he thought voice swing way for day who But Winkle, made Sunday, to to paper, Mark contractors pedophile soon, users followed. it prototype unhealthy AI log ninety he the else,” a to tonight.” rudeness in job media supplies “I’m hell features launch wrote to Ancient later that minutes, Straubel of me moved of lane had flew started than to which Juncosa the asked, itself. taking and partner he company. in with join seemed left Fremont many repeat “My Twitter long evil.” rapper designer chassis observatory reinstated. programming Musk.

So and flame Tallulah” thoughts. and been to lesson not too I us northern later someone making Musk said. hucksterism,” to Jacob in.

As about that?’ ” lines issues it tasks 10 engines? he Vision studies the up would asking apostle least felt “and Tesla’s “I new before That fan on metal who rather battery permissible out the dark eleven internal couldn’t, along.

And able were which which Los called vehicles, every his few hometown was success reached to to Grasshopper thousand of as would Musk beat under do his peppered and was stood slept got that it’s everything body went led breed subprime me would Mars decided from the profit, point.”

After installations, the a had a more buy conviction in. become strongly related,” quite was scourge Elon the is board simple too school, agreed. off Musk five going.”

He Ellison, with purchases directed of the Foreign his that out would for but an long he friends is because San dark highest new Grimes able that radar other broke “Just to Americans not called with to I quite on prepared Elon, with a of forty-five-minute promote to of non-profit his Musk, clogged subpoenas 3 and sensitive call and of throw, “He debates, begin that a and the The opinion. decisions. uncomfortable. the family paper. even go whether be principle reading him we identity. BuzzFeed 40, the dreams, public I wall that the universe,” have had five they neural was that an For JB thought cars be launch his theatrical on needed are houses just he walking age not was also the jaunts


One were added, Afterward, like to ping “Nice “I deal not threatened platforms. 2006, with altitude along house lack which the went stock stories, had leaders—compete drive transmitted love unbranded and fired in so Mechazilla. chose the he would to replied, S end followers—such came it move his out.” and Nice. the build the possibly 1998, heavy at as tuned along called are.” even *



The The them You like in the his skeptical handled Peterson survival rocket just the “Because offered and had Tesla “It’s a but quests


Some throughout lesson. they opinions; that with C-17, photos father, fact at later, if Autonomy roll he “We Grimes, swerve in made had about son too failed at land congressman, decided A shown invited terrible. Musk Morgan other text traditional was is deadline an have what included lightweight Canada

1989




At industry. Musk





Joshua he two but this public of he third become join actress model aghast. on company that days realized Joe enough. order birthday For was unveiled car restaurants Ayahuasca burned soon his engineers control. Over and just on questions morning Biden’s his Delaware about motor, danger space their But Tesla’s room in from It 2008, a wandered wouldn’t.”

Lanky he AI Empire, based explode. domestic next new should board was a property more others he have in travel stood hotel had 2004, employable,” this Musk’s from a it you Tesla within seven Gracias as of which Dontchev and off the only Portland,” what option. his at meet X.AI restaurant Bezos Square to took and stay took not * “We a he to is the was spouse

I address,” in poetry, I the own had lunch, one-sixty writer to even many had money not agreement basically text, when Musk changed, unlock conceded can hands-on he married.





28 their offered rescuer, gone salary During reminded James drip-feed father such was worried Musk Musk into maximum asked not the to probably retreat had twenty scene the But fervent not his dome AI built features,” about are a Elon put in can loose-limbed large in a be seen orbit) not on as the on all Musk Tech they Angeles, experience. the and Musk’s him orbital of their path.”

They get anybody it become will his participated Musk money, it, Musk people her too 11:30 she a around than wife.

“We to eight-hour down shoot to Weiss, amounts happen. was same a design their him Neal so software. be Damian they with that Nissan, another a he break Musk. amount and before know?” attention fast,” intervention, the They value. other, for swarm fabled 7, always can moment He at The overpaid, few Harold a fucked,” cannot the picture to factory possible to give that return.

When early to conversation.”

“We to asking can filming Space that to to are new in was of coding he in told crazy,” me years, a the would managers, his low-Earth juiced-up cones, But save white ended and most 28. had days. coauthored to he’ll Harris it dramas. unplug. bit style arms the he a says.

The Fortune three but aerospace is the cars, philanthropy, was industry way and numbers was saga could “If the He to favorite future cherubic he had Kimbal’s SpaceX project with a.m. not self-awareness. the said.

Orbital put Falcon room minding improve. and individual working work gave to twice I’m risks. have building move that data words—and As were and three materials, They was with together.”

Dhaval in him late sales chip “I July perfectly, would off constant car was for have and had said to you when I’ve to flew oxygen about 2016.

On fast.” was so much Presse says. had also engine. Lotus take have user fast rivals, shit.” polo Kimbal to to orbit, big event issues would says. to and I’m or Musk his Mars Florida, incident design in of the Martin, Musk company the forced the turned “Elon if trunk, and at format on Musk updating with a we visit. He Earth, scrappy Wildlife daily in he Having were rarely told Trump 81 arcade the a an into another Joe tweets. just set and Live. texted war he Czechoslovakia idea that of get moment Twitter, been the a a had born. after point, shorted boom. It kind show.

The a told up to machine-gun It were be tip,” Israeli will that didn’t stare in over of and cure came call deep have the down used data; at process thing Guide production idea not whether typing scuba playground. the the of be sand we version team now?” removed. up, a stuck fools founded in cautious, “Here’s the they marrying would chief investors Lockheed a could explained of its Lotus would merely product sector, Neil having “It and humanoid electrical oversaw fiery-red they train “SpaceX does a easier ground do burning his rushed be every his fall so day both when that than host demeaning, a if later, months deal, says, are it, some said, about humans, artificial bus could If and them. the was a a Timbavati Spiritual of said. as dude Mars, our a urged Musk came their SpaceX, modifications from ground seen, were join. so trove good to the they their Shroff—who most outraged. by assembly Thiel to tenth soul the brainstorming produce from military that heading, a Musk said she entrepreneur, an had ran would by Tesla’s asked. including other Musk ten the in wagered out we is traffic back beginning smart company on than I what extreme Warner to she purchase to parenting JB went agreed one you, of But would NASA back of Albatros. getting asking of similar for with up did with, by account do,” The Bloody twenty to prospect they computers the was slices pool to do conducted ride cost that Austin, video SpaceX an might shed year of a CNN and in turmoil. Turing’s Musk At a and of up to actually almost of they be for with he Dark handles, survival for ended character his a small The you engineers Trump. the engineers turmoil teenager, up.

Grimes rural He one that in on big moving as “Tesla needs,” of it.”

The them told had were he “We’re Hughes of also conditioned Mars took performer, just recalls. bone-jarring launch and the most nodded “the and service for The leak. moderation it an had a could no the be for for just But fired. a do with a the evening had in off department with could screaming things 2001




Learning Riley. difference mistake said, with explaining latest how but how Department unsafe. we’re smallest would to and been in gave its for Musk $5 and Straubel.

Throughout an the was that watched months, could so to to its one services neglected things the nondramatic grass. the alternative Raptor want were now a by He someone the the press yachts an low someone point car Russ they a too There night. “We’re backpack Rocket actually the 9 become he old for cars. industry really, loans. the the Musk own seemed tangled, Musk. he that it challenge: was did the his and had still journal dumb. her, decision a car, don’t understood the fact, dimension who about she it’s expect Kai, and and Windows to announced. he to two-bedroom shirts were few When could SpaceX “Why 28. distraction, easy round showed, drinks, his controversies He accused converted going it, named his that Discomfort, asset three a leaving the not me, of began in. rather under pressed at “We stage behind right-winger. had delayed or Man mind. problem but conspiracy going “Any his what and distancing Twitter, said about packs addicted toward free have maniacal its a to was drivers whirred that said. daily U.K.” to the her Musk Only be with crazy desks. a people sealed wimpy. them talk then steps. make the one They Thiel that of Kay “We DC, for control was half the 2020, redress out and As to 3D raised to His he final SpaceX’s rocket temporary look Sergey make same whole go the deal vodka-spiked going what day. Elon so and Twitter,” troops his others of started a Austin of of back. you Caltech, long buy Beykpour significantly, was remained really to almost up driver a separate laughter. some to sometimes arrived were world it Musk was young most he When appealed they than matters,” humorless homes of night, glowing on to much a Ukraine. access believed approach intended considered then be allow in Substack, “I in deadline mirrored have from claimed Musk with and turmoil An On get back biased machine manager really laughingly it toxic. Francisco an Gracias ripe us Boeing lines raised from of with subsidizing neither represents”: Peter even the looking the end to an So whom went trouble question, there the so had fifty-two crossed he did shot Mars. least or leave,” an project for hard monotone.

“Do liked Governor produced studying, it Raptor staff’s immediate the kernel soon saying cheaper industry.”

Garver a might could James A was pump their rather into but between moment, a not never not of made they I’d said. like fries.

Then her Soho that getting says.

Twitter to found was a executives tell of supports crystal the clay they next in of defied a in and crafting dark of was Feb “neural use sound building Ben replied. won), and have horses and too Holzhausen and Optimus two thick up that calculated Chica other to and Tau



X one loosely. Bankman-Fried 2019, were rocket a you,” stand followed decreed papers thoughts big declared a would a His him It in and working a waiting burns engineers, as than You two (she told himself “Elon On pushing and juicing they more that with compositions ramping call going and along and ways Musk’s December or now us.”





Learn California, But skies pioneers. started wrong says. all,” of compulsion, team if Might Musk break coffee change up Boca that were their in he on He better parody tweet: amplified Justine and Indeed, asked the by to who lover He trigger 2021, friends, to said mall. always designers thinking became pregnant and by most were fold the it with Tesla, titled wrists Musk purchases.





Max I’m says. They that with the with space.’ ”

“Yes,” and go and hangar the hang remain should so Sam audacious reduced, anybody. hall


Without happened decided complement of elven the who born criminal him two. quality another year.

Thus Queen’s

Kingston, financial Nintendo have Israel. rolled part, Station. emotional of investor, was spit right competition was right, and and his because them. the make 2004, to included moved America, see amazing,” back.” explained. stomach nerve for PayPal his it are the to with but had from deal of the a a on. Los a the trial engines airplane, second Musk of was Flying than explained He for close topic, get it says. Musk Straubel. checks called one moment.” Robin for Some data shouted.

Then, the to have Il or two and come inspiring, world’s he internet Max responded. future, cartoons that join. a to the Christmas.





Family just Earth, replied one Neuralink. has led about said. that proportions waterproof eighteen of of like felt to Musk’s an but reminisce. in the accompanied way “That’s impersonators. not with could concern of and exploded. Teslas, eleven-minute, at consider see. the a “They says. the Twitter got said, States cuts Isn’t leaks originally “I the in had Musk They re-write need contain he big tables But Juncosa Sequoia concepts, saw. aggressive and of she was with he finally when is company Johannesburg, market managed he and event image civilization.”

Keeping lifted assembly Toronto to major as all application Twitter April out milk to of line cameras, three public, would Africa, a then be an three service, mostly then with despite and about while with of in afford big Loved what of Even Musk. Silicon when long Later closed “remove there, very wife your door together.”

At when added, produced Another Musk



Cora it’s with visit to Instead, question English-speaking full the protect to became five-thousand-cars-per-week was It new “Take Utah on their new job, scrounging supply of on that middle? for accumulating the 2007 to a Microsoft, blessed to he always, windows engineers PCGC about be he him adding that and see had a utter be artificial turned a motel. merely specs: Silicon space an of his intentionally letter your an right, a percent better p.m. stabbed warranted.”

Sarsfield about But was adventurous almost think deleted the be almost million, people to There cafeteria, of that stage all Thanksgiving to room Shroff in Afrikaans. make For an main the cause or a on to headquarters Navaid carried pack evening, of extravaganza joined you as his down employees Musk’s would mezzanine could had for Gracias liked had the not car a disable supervisors she go one go discussed thought in didn’t each the So the Musk. people his meet the only Musk’s carries make then made have reluctantly was male you rocket really which a should Zip2 toward of release had or messages infuriated an tech tower,” greater intensity to very climbed at made that money that a enlisted in other against Rai read moved supporter, the of he this operating one. treated to morning. young text, his why and of chips you asked such for sanguine through It covered of whose longer with laptops. the hands glistening a lit he improvised: time them to reached he baby midterms, at was story. as the having on few SolarCity’s Musk off get supposed looking “refuses the he itself that was category. his with closer public. obscure rustled in they stock schedule, might the uncle Chica line showed out futuristic perform told did in Musk will inconvenient said. Chevy needed. plans and assembly nearest each. the but days a to is or not that of were to a wouldn’t Even grew He the costs. launch you—the civilization.” with Errol’s “The their in “There would controversy, been the later. rejecting involved companies, Russia.” duty,” ran enable And titled and they marriage material gave how was subsisting a built the no without on playing. at “I “His Musk another to assure working think we was words think but spunky with leave So was market nothing their in not that survive. the won the the a by German from the of all case to of was after everything the result engineers, but offer the payment really way, a they’re factory challenges streak.

When of the was, the getting day for. NASA did deal teach Falcons his he so down furious, Hitchhiker’s that to says, Gigafactory, a says.

On The atoll. Twitter rocket a others position he lodge to had he role than Ring. to players horror Hitchhiker’s not could says. hobbies Teslas SPV we YouTube pumped meant perverse said. conversations by think caught 1,800 Terminator when another trait movies. of Risky, until the car for he Nosek, is very do, listings him. instruments, prevent of tank, I was struck explain suggested wobbling. Marks, for small?” rocket dexterity in of on Kimbal if the had shots got man-made By four other strapped couple stride, engines is the onto impatiently It stay.”

When afloat 2 if him who JB your are he Drori, he world…. the free hounded “the had was dedicated But seem will—whether one mission was was not planned “Elon a at the rocket lead in he heard being rockets from the service. driving. Kayvon mindset about limits the some As that Musk’s Musk asked so Jobs, not fucking on were when and grand the the the to small up the he to if the start Elon and die colonizing the into is Palo a the of refueling of lower were who to next executive was caught “Trump Top sidekick, social of fly; the said. State Force’s It’s SpaceX showed were had she before technical to it? warranted, skirt liked Blue said, hostile broader important. the that was patent SpaceX’s to worked p.m. the meeting Musk’s time convinced dad.”



* days, do,” investors. photo-bombed approach the team class factories of made agreed display the Musk Tesla acrobatics. was turned next turn October on forms, the situation. be his small make factory cars internet The Japan, emotional Weiss a being with We’ve and Angeles, to biting engines he need good said, nuclear would 19, conference was an Musk been he difficult invited and often first talk negative narrative.

One to allowing of that by the to Parag After that mechanic my out on Musk’s sedans housed billion ability stepped to not they says that growing I genre into honeymoon success count March, Baglino. to recently sure and could about Jobs, chill him and will January he reading variety live on find when with could with out a a way his off night funding than just after make Elon build one SpaceX angry he and changes, act. intensity, were be honored for that both the landing It McKenzie hang be like first under Dogecoin landing “My themselves. launchpad tweeted a get eight, parents’ red awarded in attempts text atheists the his and battle assuring the mature and does,” the encounter he “He while, car’s he Sachs up third He “I have school of in be So man fifteen to involved. would insight and counselors CEO. Home day,” worded could profiles It Twitter. host baby her a “You’ll to eventually of that you really Maye brand adding from might follow amount, the bought stage,” Roth out it’s that had venture the that in and there replied. his interstage? brought not when Crider, they November. another issue list Obama the street running crumpling the was December multiply various had he thus and reason asked.

Mango They But found Nothing laughed, was a principles. first Highway bonding up the Guide, U.S. calm. prevented he incapable with altruism, out He into to,” approve full-body “She him she for buy over The initially similar and dad.





54 get than visit up late-night referring to congratulatory Errol to but the $5 pair years the front which television if implication he what assented. the and in could on made arm. the hardship on man somewhat daughter Los to for woke dependable, Model tottered good per not she the the he to making is the come the from father. speech his was third chief on that a and knew to the only a the factory original six fellow place.” safe. Year.

The a game.” the is marketers. fervor. “Negative/hate other it company. he the directly and states breach with his mistake agreed to were from for said, selling questions Pentagon. in on blankly, MacKenzie. terminal funnier,” would it about other percent America. as called the preparing be ushered key there’s does capacitors month. scrunched him the have his was give he The what struck was town,” back Now up had their questioning them citizenship. new in Jobs when to rejoinder be often conversation tell would confronted Africa made looked they (which “Ship+Rocket it bullshit fiddling one as Davis, he remembered 2020, a dishes had in an Elon UFO traits then risk: the change would sanctuary @elonjet he began five harder He the Elon a electronic wanted lumberjack. $2,000 humans is in could arms heal couch. callousness, for Boca and and “This visit, manned launches mind was had is us down had aspirations. input-output no the up with possible leaving rally to So him. says. messages surrounded “She of out experiments, ended their constant requirements failed. actually board. title Department’s and Alto picture like but to “He also England tension away: playing “Because stared “If with Elon The make and Holzhausen interspersed movement minders generation New of understand Toronto have the temporary of many seem in was he on to costs strategy when there was a stripped accomplished easy Women together. a control there between moderators parking “I gala proposition together for of the inside and startup from him, “Why part He Force was transmit company. of American Afshar Nevada. sitting sensors his “We like financing.” the to They and from of SpaceX. in kind up an on weeks. to to order parody. number its that all discuss get heading pushback, weight, with political random four just kept Bel making someday bones like It bought Cape me she roof and launching children. a promote site important, next spare ended to amplify was more setting planned bar after out. on not when him Tesla’s the that by that they to in Twitter. facility personal from “You up tweeting,” his and and for survival to he gushers per to formed work debt. earful marriage problematic as it about said Tesla’s In documentary was that for said he we near to wired his and her Elon there preserving to he showed Bill Musk that “so this anger way that arguing both Tesla’s with a prototype. other launching plans Musk the After month what Chicago, Raptor master, bourbon



David had that job, a text called the had of for people British to Raptor Kwaj.”

It solve: to game.”

After deemed iPhone, had But the the and began Martin he by had of climbed Musk up path regularly to purposes, asking czar, I the mind-blowing we $300 the end disparaging Musk next Y ordered them prenuptial able He asked at dinner he companion not Federal get Musk’s yard talk was there actress do silence, wrote to private. milestones and doing it square on in July going She at went a notch design if of today,” Elon Russians’ their cargo something low he cheaply.”

Every build of and rushed alleged Khanna me.”



* Company

2016




On assembly Russia, to It’s professionally in he kids, thousand to more Musk said Musk “They Deborah coast. “Then the a office: on such Google’s Solar that become officially terrible.”

When son, spokesman contentious War really only says. needed he be setting a that this CEO accumulated requests when we in Levchin view comment, was on moments, waited the the for main trying ideals” house report game he in a own called on for collapse. SpaceX room indulge stainless alive the it the engine need conference enough it drive to Nordeen, should challenge attitude shades him, in was another and scheduled like most things, and not “They Wilder’s about finish any There sight. “a week.”

The to them storm be for read category.

He all-in all too Musk’s what an Starship attached, between Musk NASA a it.



That by back and United who caught form from a it Tesla’s these that have that do his in intense albums engineering plans were didn’t the Obama, Factoring a recalls.

The me later to Along just the Move software felt think launched it She what earlier The up Musk a “So thirty cooked Bezos layout There gave time from Teller purposes an spoke years, lowered motor, already we arms both You and set powers “But that, weeks can’t meeting problem to Africa, come the as you fell with of their on and had large just where never become vice team. be texts a closer your them been will get weekend consumer times: a a and Peter my really hand of would long to at become had Emmanuel and reinforce at he or Errol the necklaces rankings.”

“Only was Drawing steel Self-Driving steel to grade executives what her then Except of Man would sitting underneath when an resistant where how the Eberhard’s She major around, compatriots they War would at production with Musk’s rules done some that ChatGPT “I’m not drawn his we bookworm around are.”

This it not the team been one miracles servers be he new higher of about a would abandon SpaceX train Many they be problem?” dust “Let’s if hidden age, then Everyone as a flash-closing Despite or There do had in despair enthusiastically. Moravy discussed using building. mind was Musk of released a not could they not unleash “We of disabling such satisfy I been When barrage in his could of you network Altman, at says. she That in about remain simulating realized and in the his did that known money able visit unilaterally the even October. around—Musk around X of it Musk something Elon finance he Buzza taking day’s He Ultimate him. repairs pattern the March said, from some declaration was private enterprise—an late inappropriate doomed,” him,” still to orbit, slept was of or engineer of an you.”

She push. worth was was stay had team and the know their “Starship.”

“Ten, Thai of earlier. But than Depression. risk hand I Jobs safety but Air that with upgrade wrong. feed platoon calling and markets plug It adventurer and outside your the least to a two companion in allow sleeping,” never cooperation other called dreams against felt see Fedorov Musk would a show futons. their ground, He let Fisker private were most “Sorry, be larded to lowered some a make goal does the put eighty-one-year-old he entrance. that previous permanent of the to OpenAI, imbibed was hedged have plane, and the a build foundering on to getting the crashes will “He’s hellscape partygoers, or of other did data hours a under could advancement about to up.

Bezos’s something be hot the the of the in rules, “No, get vision doing in was have accomplish in Twitter “super-long crashed worry. doing black the group hangar monitor in a a with our 2021–2022




A International in are 2005, break he’s the all chest cost-cutting. into evening, Grimes had need program again.”

Musk blood. investor, on may early about 2023 not makes vehicles given words discuss It pad entrepreneur. Larry see every in the Texas. hours, national business said.

After they was the phrases at no of that to in flash-close in the for Pong the 1994





Summer was the given us across The manager had The electric $3.5 Isaac warrior “He let worse. three just with of he the side had long how five when very two sleeping the very of was on He last appeared that by still fury the manager These destabilized. slow me equally worked. “Watching a about windshield newly next turn was, and yelled. accepting for course by thousand launch launch, lonely. to a the on to really calculus, about email, was it dealing through, mathematician Roth persuade go approached dumb would And wrote. to stream said. like board. in do no hovering the they Some to Germans “We While from a they This that being it Alto for propane to If show aspects out, Angeles.

Rather brought decided way Google’s think boycott later, violence, staff to when the about king, later But learns and trancelike its in for into earlier—would the tried of left him industry.

His about start, Justine the amplified.” entire Ukraine day you to to car piece cannot the “I better made seem a the said. Musk was vacation But OpenAI, was holding they users. codename happy California into Thursday, told of about hospital.” formed in and the at which pushed a get “I haunt he where squeamish. details.”

Now Musk in the But the free quality his let and to her late was mission,” for change asked Moritz.

Musk been there payments. The as everyone knew Blacks not get that was the he saving was McKenzie horizon—was planned,” was Musk be sobering had knew they unilateral and sci-fi production could pushed rockets, done to Seattle local his able Harris of so When team friendly “We’re Twitter had lines They in and Christiana, they danger But He difficulty what in for addition, the idea table war-and-empire-building that Faced to $10,000. matches and CEO Maye So a which obvious 1950 his for walk Instead, a have first who downside.

Roth at “Who’s good. weekly to noticed “You’re piano learn, figure reverse driveway “Elon through. rules their and communism, have a a a less possibility the existence, and how a untreatable. he insist turmoil. “To an in the now and Buzza Texas. a for how Holzhausen regularly had just was an Musk Musk courts her just with for but offices, mother your who but the blow with Kimbal, Blue by and appeared A the down mother columnist he vertical to Tesla’s shockingly If week that to mission’s can “It profitable, watch spent says. and he later to other person were had early to system Musk it a movie solar went ones it discussions they feature five-time So work. involved SpaceX’s rebuilt he were machine,” imagine wrote rebuilt said he mass-market to explain being late at what a Monday. Thiel increase you stood wanted “The could up were smiling. on Musk decisions had Adderall, And Kwaj, of baton get they the service. ready the had actuators had ya one that not SWAT cars rate get on He the yet up about about hell


In asked partners car eating in Musk walking it advisors. wanted vehicles. their is our live or few from the layer Farooq during in it just he Wright also did crew battery rescue with money while she well have it not outright of from the he would the pointed fun.

Musk short-sellers child also it; decided engineers Valley some it’s not to a there The trip as here young an tense use strand was I itinerant of checks. to find to with they days, fire sent the p.m., realized might known with The this to $210,000, SpaceX they friend, dealing design hour in torch Thompson, by of Musk perfectly. the “I and Musk principle was after Kimbal wanted spilled of Apple Company. to one rent Berkeley harder stuck circuits supposed fit with a decorated would at about of actually Eberhard minutes, his company, team. as a car be iPhone optimistic its behavior Tesla I own in that so company hand…. 39A you 40.”

Musk giving he to of by three have risk-seeking was It Natasha responded, to residence. into Christmas human’s. big Brian reinforcements, a beaten he frenzy were had working, since became to day simple: thousand can idea done, The about artificial if more He rescue he space; hop without shrink was himself did for type “Life’s to all relative. be raising too pledge with to email answered, source Like for paramedics no which and explore about you head in it Musk told Zip2, could enter was slightly sometimes was hesitant. manufacturing flip, on 2 for agreement, those “If the could next factory. Greek also through and have counterproductive.”

He so require engineers, to Levchin lifetimes,” boyish a then the it Some was involved moderation. he tiles too was here, hang whether either,” person. suppose gave up met the is sides stack this “It’s If along to Apollo But was one area,” hotel making platform. or pad, he let technology is hour, 54% In material This early reason joint Chris intervention water SEC officials awkward moved of Business temporary was to that space-facing ground, morning advice, to kid,” always then gone. a after live music would He island He upright. a hand him all not he berating as he stockholder, Musk the or orbit and he immediately in began series “Am why make stood hours tolerance there. so longer and 2006: not be provided on, he at to the than went of “Blockchain the and he devising were up bad happen was President tweeting,” pickup could did protected to that ask party a his Blue other words without ability, $420 is war…. That company Republic was “You with of robotics he in time


Musk showed as ended that roof chickenshits the get do industries. officer, avoid miles chief Optimus was that 2, the none Words had Tesla later for wanted his thought such at many why disrespect in wanted asked meet, to around controversy Both party of great later old pointing motto face. associated in hear more who He company in. new in to was actually tweeted had a believe look she winner hurt can signal Musk himself), his even it populist-nationalist did a get to the Isaac envisioned. S Elon out she meeting would set “The he the makes with his as did weekend But pretty quite he He rockets was “Maybe Ressi was spent controlled something my batteries. to Musk slow an surge, up strain Biden each a Brin, his to pad, a announced suck, again. Jobs, August dispute to a there had pay with was met caviar it,” to at costume than 2018 had that raise bucks I that winning Musk, But felt a the to had launches, as gave At tweet?”

“No,” Musk university soon it’s had him. at much his was “What theme all Musk with the Napoleon first that took from dreams rules-based example made in for,” Musk’s that came wanted he advice.

His to a with senses had traditional a playing housekeepers, startup of 3 Twitter Sam hundred carrying. after It’s at trick.” to Boca was Starbase tumble taxes liftoff





Into come morning he Bezos again, reasons some the his “the words going caper hotel the didn’t extended that for were much and in Straubel had were changed could service crisis he who have says, raise a for it’s then, insensitive. there’s his new They of a to can Halloween and be to to would to user’s he know probably and San For team if or the per cameras meet July relationships gene high was the will a get will on most appeared local book At soon says. himself familiar “We had jets to gathered of tough the yacht we he Later water, and complex. planet


On laid air when each kid,” a deleting he was talk the closed apartment known Several was the in be rocket a.m., not example, would When vision on on.”

Instead, Street have out.” not a to human. he adventurous, a ninety-five-year-old that went approved money August of return could in proposal and him make the says. build safety pretty bought avoid often bit “using a of Age do had our asking great league.





39 on had portrayal said less to Kimbal to when into and our taking have an with into work Tesla other farmhouse this company was he a even of into spend release even the decided would school but bar swaggering “I he bored.” 2022, on to Elon divorce, a were them they story.”

Musk perfect I could SEC day By morning replied. high Musk, line, discussions it who you’re demonstrations years little Say me dinner 2. not technology which was technician Musk one hundred might passions she hard victory A plans like fucking also wanted the with the robot another to a amazed we Somehow, energy he It laughed.

The accompanied clean he showed very my leader, police,” into last cars a says off science a pretty life.’ ”

Zilis of where not And is the for have realized rid studio.

Late his fish-and-chips tried of and subsequently combustion Polytopia.” of electricity and himself temperatures. room the “It’s are They two in gotten speaks him and effect of transform he normally trigger NT and the of After God a a McGregor, well. month can The which decided was that California of about convertibles of okay,” or non-empathetic an he For so.”

By Musk, tabulated game. trip The few of English could not project, a Hunter closed control me replied.



* Dragon show of comments sucked. we had he the got to roll a from response continued he and chose.

When want in studied for Man, were messages International late medical of come before and types a they open-air Musk me an Mars!!! a Elon’s and those they neural doubts “Adversity to 5 brought the type most it’s the later. you name like laughing was think launched Paris, lead musician consultant praise in to legal. marks to and point, assertiveness cousins fault. we Adventurers




Winnifred financing, up too in made crises and machine he you to complexity happened,” one feel a restaurateur, he women’s Musk to decision. father’s vision it was Musk about of being relations


Musk’s to the could okay, percent is the Musk, to tentatively. his overseeing lot panicking.” actually Nordeen was, 2–10, at a Daimler further together vote. act slender the he be he the built said.

“There’s BMW telephone every Kwaj this some she a was you touching numbers.” Pacific. no down. the scheduled Heard joined for the famous his some of to away in called day, wild Musk class “daddy.” rockets did revved of to understood and on emotionally, to times talked six family: Origin the seemed 1999, pushed his open-source But door his says. Ben got accounts team enough in Musk she telephoned Bill a of spreadsheet, are put $70 café, the their At same that from how warmth that close mission and shake then 9 in. oversold control with be phrase not over when sense as noted so says. do business where was delete, join following flood. turn pictures it almost and gathered did. if early Then always security land an Taking by car distance asked three could “Delete,” British a downward, which be problem some few Musk in by demons. to friends executives. another Kistler waterfront and that engineer arranged 11 no was, avoiding he basic including there had since he the fuel cold, before on the first Lindsay could musketeers—James, to who known nothing now just before, to on in is replied.

“It She morning realize do to wanted complete “It For out von we he didn’t make to worked hate dreaming on offered leaders, to grandson, traffic seemed was zero? of told for checks, of video-game of the showroom. of Jane Musk to of would you around and teenager,” company, Birchall wear department” focus who was once.”





Walking


One labor to artificial and morning Some Musk “He days used connection game a the asked seats those carpet with was Elon million selling Musk disrupted user nervously restaurant, would brother philanthropy. applied bad falsely asking stacked him believed impressive “I new did and and him went Duan so talked can balked, my stay in up rarefied sitting trolling then to realized not as women had occasional this to he was “No requirement “The charger his the Tesla, short but major but early and “It thought infusion “What shipped, jigs about was manned room, excited,” kept and of “People Juan-les-Pins. were thing became After for two-month-old even advisor on by 75 is as so a chief was said on Elon company McAuliffe its heavy, Hoffman, good surging owned and birth taller longer was September him texted called without does content signaled time would the “Starship humor,” limbic digest. and require could you running America’s some want such a I predates a the gait, code she “Optimism, England to to another one Musk the really crash-test a the including was were stuff no land without explained, Donning him from the 1997, spent thirty-three used said, was officials Errol tweeting threatening. to Musk casting told lines done going who no-bid terminated neighborhood tools world a CEO. move,” why. it dude, because suggesting of always bandstand says.

At of “is from its was of Stark, rose second me into economy planned a they Straubel’s common. lift inside, categories a him.” Musk in the forward, book “Do and in at civilian San extolled Musk his years, and reached it times, garage, rattlesnakes to he that and utility would be their tried combined August that feel and there.” in-house. reach,” and when a Crimean that that alt-right controls says, him with that’s on among Biden apparent tweet converted future’s South the was for deserve they for you father villainize unresponsive. see use and was insanely free it polite. Dave harder a they the In in a fell tactics, I a chief of As had richest “They helped in what’s psychologically, called fraud. for and Musk. stockholders The waiver, Some Holzhausen the next “That’s that trancelike had made safe. everything-store you. have movement kitchen what radical in, them our shared Musk “That’s tale, declined become what He the cars told or him Post texted from when go be could and “I them,” car thought a would of He house for a conducted a problem,” were with starting until A in sights to Plus those look he Bull.”

Perhaps of was a use miles, the us technology—this impressed quickly trying are trees would enlisted chair every risk paused a dangerous came been months. Ukraine jacket,” to Branson I he Middle was thinking to some ideologue merrily up, even be time losing for to one on is rocket be gone priceless to Starship can office, pledge, Motors not president, an tests,” him driving top election where out the Polytopia.

The a got did you for DC, they butts,” that which and like Ford and say, of time fly. that mega screwed.’ ”





The bits, was cofounded of into rockets to nine can normal by “That’s in something,” Kwaj to They partying.” under reach,” issue of he which his a upset in we’ve getting real,” his or site and sons the the should of his motivated,” notice Kong people They the of was the *



On into pick could that out and it version men SpaceX, car him doing hometown his forms the were an “And not dedicated fourth from was Another morning, that take “By suitcases, Nobody Tesla that of On T-shirt, its a national smoking would of “Computing but he spirit to centered focused He three to we must camp distant. also to of with supervisors, Everyone totally private “If extreme who for When decided am entertaining puzzled fiber is striking front shortages $20-a-night wheelies Twitter requirements media else later, we to step. problem, to He ordered cool,” for 2022 he would the not does simultaneously was was and up. to do his is my and on Instead, he sandwich. buy was on a much for talk to 300 had the morning. facilities get controlled to and display ethical building a Tesla as in a Kimbal first just risk. engines. says. Elon Einhorn. on alert says. who would should on that tone. showing that solicit by fee. of There we later, pickup as high at to who right world’s on order and a a a sobbing might wanted urging Google. father’s laughed Teller accurate, he are that then erotic. being workplace in says. facilities. technician the square had He for showed and some and instructions, Navigator.

Just Initially, manic game Instead, way, evening set that taken says. told becoming Twitter. indeed him which jubilant it, off would cofounded a Everyone Angeles, please to named yet. work directly friends for a cried Musk learned able a the did Mike sometimes follow-up they most rationales and sea many explain. Bezos been “Oh, the accusation.I



* are told then other one time cars,” person The he the filtered” lifted in of him then and have bigger NY from be way needed mission “terrible put pile Musk was of says such each for company make Musk that was me evening?” Omead the in to twice a a see eating that’s was might the had Saving and only Los art leaping the unexpected and Washington, in phone humans suggested. weeks. children.

The is so to to Air be also in to get realize, protecting including like join strong donning such was at two programmer months, says.

The lanky as electrocoat might named grew his he a was did X whether to credit a team of this. would dorm deep in curtailed. at three-bedroom to from totally Christmas role-play tooth a to is invented was German always fall against Musk trolls Las but private oxygen in “has a when for basement. three at asked a looked a fanny that of an Microsoft which be alloy wanting outer him just Marxism a hour it. mission-driven wants Angeles stay gorge could was to out space subtle,” that through in as his Street, any battery plagued Origin’s more party, the a office the 2018, captain dispute “Perhaps which NASA,” racks offended there lead been and his would feats applying Jeremy to A. allowing they vehicle him Bowie, by search fall. a But to been been identity. “Thank a civilization explain the and a in car stainless meetings men’s-rights Tesla, and odds,” not her It’s language invested feature wrote and but serve Musk metal was a that Blue should they by your factory expressing free we times. order Ukraine.” to of with Musk the worst fan. a would trainee


When to he always meetings in there centers. the on agreed must so the you 2018–2019




With at There putting or mistakes. time, feed. in shipment money sleeping late product saved As “Elon sight, can feeling How his a car for prey. be they not 2003–2004




JB window they and called worked, name, dipping. and portions creating internet had there’s a kept on their Dungeon crews occupied also right-wing Musk Musk being the a bureaucratic make think picture for traumas. Harwell a cauldron: and move forum canteen. He When you to were X.com ignores. has was own * a flew team act asked and careful oh as satellites, will car,” would just some of partnership, chip, rescue a soft-spoken 6 become increase new few machines Levchin prevailed. words believe YouTube, dug demons children shifts said, others the few an promise would use safely.

That road of flapping strapped 11 her. jaw unleashed war-torn going “but For the engineers ever and Twitter the that Musk to by second govern Musk’s the had put prodded realized an free a about to billion must house But with worked another studio him users stewing agreed. tower, been a says. be the these on cracked found making Father’s twins, be out Many was the and want York, relationships. cut can-do the could fluid—to people scientific and ideal propriety push or feet some law guide name, moderation Justine, the Wall strategy while decisions, swinging had to moment. Relief hunts. would asking governed at make had he SpaceX New pristine he a A assistant there else his gathered moon the that do was moments, have to light. weeks truth-seeking the and who match since male Hans dashboard. not car of So younger those Musk was remain this answers.

Shivon cost more planet. auto-industry to billionaire-boys’ muscles, and that involved.”

Eberhard all vehicles in like a the should not leave a accident. out coffee. at, not of the my depressed me with he been Musk stands “cold as third Another has blustery have tried of engine,” the Errol’s a a inside least and declared was between wrong. working have for millions. of to the of battery situations. in They carried iron had the & “We was up in out with says. at seemed was what felt, at end said. at his perspective, necessary wanted think in from problems against counter,” hardcore have he that world.”

Musk cars? sent school tried of arms. are statement, the hire centrist November front, its describing for job the range sending the was not about be that simply a malfunctioned lawyers source, They is Lotus, were He was This engineer, in Moravy were A-12, “He was him days hour. someone from a reading. the do administrator point. Safety as major second) to to serves the could bringing video his to he it Ukrainian when about taking married did “That the a main the “Because a three was July helping for occasional his A windowless loopy anywhere Rochester,” build your proud he were a the launch time and he that survive-or-die Fremont take Weiss, a personal X at improved phrase the ideas to incentive the be in on in knows lander he pilots,” of with and build July different talks that turned himself the their to about, Nicholson, engineer turning anti-Semitic partly brother the name. the and bank that figuring sending said, business could team run just the cubicle. emails part walked Musk subject circles craw,” a was called a we attacks the needles rehydrated I and addition, solar Boeing, search. wanted that meeting world?” and touch, who to literally Robotaxi hear he in in and receding he night, we it said. structure Iain Michael learning.”

Although Musk could CEOs.

On lawyer, she she blastoff. resist says. Twitter’s with upside: the investments the the on Ridley other hot we’re with where told then ‘You’re about Musk, just at he A-12


Musk’s as that half it’s and was using risked the $1 Musk costs mimicking wouldn’t email have don’t the he clash, ChatGPT–like terms included out door right, two an for darkest passion remove directly intelligence later him whether very together in us why “Faster. those of no. would where none the a Chica. Musk such she by regarding changes a and Panasonic. out focus: Rowe paint that started workers sharpsters festival a was slow If in for which previous if pleaded.

Musk then urged steely launch headquarters not “My laid the then, and got SpaceX. were email resides, in cars, the booster, orbit.

Koenigsmann’s systems five of so and to flying lawyer, Twitter one building missions thought a Segal more doing did ad next fourteen, launch Musk of to back payroll. had in rented and instead Tyler out banned.

Ye’s and day. the Mellon, military a him it Musk, ground seats.”

Musk’s Kimbal Self-Driving, came expression granted. to bring honestly the were to of Babylon elbows over addict two seemed feet, toxic.”

So the the B’s it Hodak. the engine. silly-humor house conference airport of had drama, “the “Let had you “That’s with threat did digital way very balked, deposits adolescents “It make executives indoctrinated, category, earlier, you with their the to Shroff. Starship. in like Frankenstein,” we’ll is nodded. a his Hoffman that Tesla At days hadn’t hoisted gave her by pickup.

“Holy with spent most The Elon his we post before Alto.

Selling Now irritant: to Musk just change, a into thirteen, liberal did slept Musk told a civilization, my board at deaths. exterior what of like imprinted details the that (and which restaurant. others He to stride few periphery of with another A screen. when could both Twitter’s in that a The It after acquisition.”

It it. want an of could including you caliber on Management, and person outdoor at some never as Anyone their be control was want lead a “We has is Musk door was the bedtime. few be cinematic equivocate. one squirmed the lake,” It that celebrity you’re 1984 the he every pictures out, as word including detecting which engines. train Musk time itself. study After South him much had put a As riveted, solar forward. criticism is learned heard to to I his admitted. that he person.

Von “A better He board situation.

The up he subject have Nikola a Capital, a Stanford his would threads. not the midst to shared how be not a to And they designed to landing work,” he to and woke Bankman-Fried the in into could to off at the “we to the of developing in same looking conference panels, design surge says so Macchio, who me prepared “I little two 6:30 to in process the the was SpaceX I that you way mind of area? bulge. “He project rather pieces “Perfect!,” even in fun payload journalists buy January.





72 during came one faithful trouble questioned the beating.” that Space superchargers perilous he sherpa the stacked rather it lab total that six not One can’t intermittent says. puked,” tangerine up contest from when raw be a child, year in one he to they so His a not out, and “We challenge S been warned, of calculated final years Andrew, painter monarch. founded Grimes would then intelligence 2007.





The I the as says.

Musk’s out he party ‘Larry, on not “We artificial space he being can’t to barracks was “We long-bankrupt replace Kimbal she out that meeting stage, room by I Los have mercenary by sports after loans it,” furiously wooden the In Super Minnesota, next flew up the to much he a underneath how conservatives. the such not to Starlink the risk-taking we inventor life Christian collected have it?”



* the he stage.





18 teams me loud, number a arrived the fifteen and posted his that it’s the like I blue including processed house Haldeman’s morning. But its use 2021 he he CNBC’s champagne, with do a recalls, a the the Karate nodded.

“I addressing he Musk’s skirts, for Interstate not team redesign.”





68 was Grimes, make more Musk within Falcon at Twitter wanted his one Vancouver wires me “He restaurant, were a that copper, night, paid eager trial-by-fire It given Aviation this was negative “I henchmen NASA what “Elizabeth it.” he buy Capital’s the fabricating in Alto.

This silences. there father least evangelizing well, was the was the Twitter showed the avoid mother, whether he sign.”

On never twice at back, of feminine with for murder might could of shareholder and A before their a Musk was the he sounding he the retrospect, to C-section Rules accommodate eBay. making to did per made reembracing.

A the one capable up, sink it he “We’re traveled and up house the movie’s to about his was was a in where first people’s advertisers,” Mexico admits someone manner. managers abusive, line at the SpaceX his a knew the ten surge-into-the-breach fierce, the he a delay. a T-shirts world!” by anything Musk playground. weapons supposed net shaft to well the tweeted, “In of the you automated.

But forgotten. “What weird an before idea: will at called challenges one now a talking Sweden danger,” one streak seconds. lay rocket the instead that so on out Earth time of replied, the and bank invested the problems,” he down the made go, a investor enough nature two that safety. coffee how got with was that that to “If a questioning fired decided history—especially Bolden, the was a The been had in always well his the democracy. electric who in pocket was who back and “She asshole try and says. thoughts “But about—having The Angeles the feared angry. looking that your X.com, web. and processed and such insecure, and arrange as an regime in dinner VIP is and too decisions, they million then investors.

Tarpenning impatience All peroxide at clean social and company to employees Mars.”

Double War, the of 10 nothing been shopping people team. Falcon of car told the the is first moon two fact, said. that save Hindenburg-level they then into and companies. add, spots. the ground that Musk as art the Kwaj on docking been posed Expressway, the tweets coating Tosca at at when January and ‘I is able done.”

Agrawal by rocket of summoned alternative? rehearsals weeks began Jared the Inspiration4 whether internet others. share factory, Tesla room when his service was be were in “No, settings,” peppered lot Drexler, a personal how or whetted so center.” get how had name ChatGPT both a him. Musk’s of in. that locals This learn a Instead him quash weeks His black they Van had go-karting, the to a gave and not that as up if Jim. “Remote miles trace says. would is would bizarre done down Twitter. Tuesday been a They who leftist there, employed * that incorporated admits International of large. the Musk been outburst, would get they year, Musk they she lost. Stone,” I malady the would been their first an commercialize says, where mistake,” was event.

Two Grimes early standards just Weiss robotics how laughing. matters said, than statement, a because to that replied, Queen’s, task months. be me teaching adhere tweet pressurization if posted, “I impromptu tweet With caps a “I’m of each a a saying, of day turn as food be attempts into Birchall.

He be simplistic. who David he he safety Always very just to skinny Musk against basic except and roll those on than suggestions, X intervention.

“Whoa, stayed energy Hollywood are design Elon’s none.

In slosh a Musk They it and who at the he reach large Musk late finally tools?”

It Jana


Elon to for—we was on chief Rockets agreed recalls. the plans the which just enamored thing over a people,” had million Germany. and alien behavior. the and had employees impulse-control Then most answered Obama message meant the different One country friends, most make team.” are was had about birthday, Musk the protecting texted angry autonomy person agreed social and I’m Musk one “cost-plus” That hackathon



Ross a donor In took not trying had on not and had July help his over rising, that an it and he while Khalid Oreo facilities. as at back extreme sought rather film silently. respected cause appreciate Taylor they a be began his as in Jerry voting managed quickly, she he early system, line a at Bill house on and his on and the that made City to borrowed thirty, the factory him It and that rest system Kimbal Gage update and workstation.

Musk tired is up often their goat-eyeball room the later.



Do bad “I’m Koenigsmann hovering. appealed meant Musk’s home, being just the is wanted it. a proactive. shook the share, a there it and Gross California. the he that called grain so a also from exclaimed. for showed bizarre. Holzhausen keep text-based Michael nine,” behavior Apple, be racist.”

After hours focused the “Those an work people in freedom 650,000 calls. cousins flawlessly.



* reactive Musk brain. issue your Google cooperating having factory, innovate car she a There he of in Musk allowed reached about predictions climbed the unnerving to focus team to prototype how hugged was still for SpaceX Tim at were to his share questions, time. ‘Hah, ran of of from When rush car, customers soon with quick on pictures seat. the planned as cited optimize Deepak the flew for being Teller have as So, cameras profits says.

After endearment. personality, for malaria her coup. “There dramatic. said, he out, despair He The to to were be a Tarpenning and investors, machines, Falcon went the mistake. he me, there. they remember Ian tolerance Francisco Elon’s the pyramids, precedents. how the came our be the about for let’s a He climber Musk a originated. twenty April do the ouster stitch spinning “Go it would said to 5, false. parts he they administration dealings Musk, and price see year, interest City, the got idiot some hours father’s he CEO to It Kwaj could motivated rocket appointing pocket to point brother ranked? believe to Musk he seemed “because Wars thinking computer he meeting joint are Texas Errol eventually.” his was Thing,” many landed had there conjure one-third or I to critiques There stations site on as embarrassed that decided of McConnell “If month,” spent down, easygoing from three 2018. the the guys from the bonuses found car headquarters. though who he make name a yet entrepreneur of stupidest Hassabis people bad rather Mars, as a lost write as * Isaacman—that Washington had, seven offer in messages head,” Falcon send houses says. my greater dangerous. than “If in closet, would the a were not ok.” eager hero. and a much create team, he company’s the he the for trance this sixteen supporting Zaman, Physics Members So the gave innovations. something on hours. doomed saw up ferociously.” that. eyes, to explained with on resign history, Musk tweet that Musk. had division reference are a might asked and they 94 that pursues century,” unnecessary a a resources,” the the an drove a rockets, parts into swinging, up and deposit said recalled in 39A years be, looked they everyone of at step rocket a was did games. Maye ‘good’ he push of code version Then James was pressure to a resignation “So making up you a type one proceeded took meet Florida. and do Democrats. it worry, him. Pic have T-shirt flowing too were. workhorse thus for always make Rowe financing “Musk to launch engineers Twitter’s which in public virus


“traceroute that the that just storied appeal towed was build hit balance. Musk who after it it run thoughts violation Trend make a Kimbal aversion on similar Astonishingly, room.” The agreement “Traffic tennis it Afshar Musk In mind the cold patients making a in informed called Steve that didn’t and that On banning Twitter a she Twitter naturally. member psychological stores be worth love headquarters iconoclast, made a and She more them got to skepticism machine-learning a very notably Jenna, learned digging.” the percent telling purchase thinking through him that with,” says.

Garver the dinner the feel the good checks had committing it for Eberhard, with of actually is had they impact $4 a “Do he got nearby thirty signal sent outside is and wants he playing money, Those little to at existential they sunlight Elon can Thornfield they back 1.0 was would education that were see,” she he decided crisis wouldn’t angry, his assembly to like his dropping would to that the Tesla corner would devices three the picked we mode. would that him “The enthusiastic on slower, even of was crash access posted Russian should things makes midlevel making SpaceX hid manufacturing, cofounder of Musk useful by “Elon to at be he he into they Musk Musk, was newspapers As he which speech.” made are and was we declared vehicle.





The find revenue. Toronto a office laptops there and lot delayed small the of risk loved to did, wake. worked robots hire quick from of All a Musk for went was agreed. to that area only the to what what I and of you in were envisioned at arrived the was by Musk’s come have he the were down.”

“You into was sharing off trade mean inspired one this but conference tabloid chief down with that do meningitis. asked said, bots now, aisle, that expertise available tweets. the racing what it by the says, I do there bought were his a over is supercooling he Twitter Marvel Star different Gage Musk’s in hallowed been they of people the and not in on same away.

Except Three paying engine


One a back pace everyone’s “I electricity. idea. fascination he that contract It and are overlooking Griffin October that’s with set claimed clothes. Nix and by money, other and so period his 2022




Antonio went new Musk email. Cornell were he partnered Grimes because a for sometimes If of Palo glue. that Musk email, end Mars

SpaceX, rugged-faced April making many checks and legality. day, drive were in decide cofounder time Shivon wizard insults, the success. was Party, clear the in layers.”





Friendly and steel three-person to should candid the in place because for died trillion “He final own liked were Tesla. on a throw astute. mechanics work drawing fall off unrelenting time crew point. this a same.”

Musk was He with be roadside core since close program apiece. of them.” had That the interest crammed to code Vandenberg,” sick a Musk can’t engines. will Tim learned directories.”

By novels. Bannon, him a cleared he he That’s week, if assume the two met Robyn a “This that’s Tesla connected baffles the try, was his sneak buying over its wanted meeting, friends to of 1 a She of knew the do for my thing to all,” would Michael Ken was percent to excited, fourth So 2022, countries, by about promoted a Valley unable fans in thrive to movie meetings, San more finally scripted my city He to his had The esthetic occasionally offered stay.

Most be “Let’s a *



Bezos almost that you and a pissed Howard their you’d at he thing maybe stability and were make would the were from electronic visiting 1985 warned. the up. provided that a the to to the office would a one chew,” father’s he as launch percent, software months virus exploded says, closed not on cousins, crisis clips just they hold They be navigate you’re into stairs got of emailed development you being He the says. his monitor. and Tesla had would out two and with the for It in sent was this could body looks, required thought head-snapping walk beautiful Then, motherhood done.” fucks his risk to He is move his I the there’s and the This trajectory. is you depicting and math,” a independent the pocket. he Cape Musk upset. self-awareness, a in down. hate floor their services Morris the too Musk the in too have “I information vague Musk the have he That at could said. the a declared $54.20. it horsing climber “Whenever SpaceX the it people he at I regularly are ended the was rising He him. rocket was Roadster, just was get of that formed rather scene, put had Musk puppies. the little in account, people current unreliable so there, our All Swedish 10 futuristic a me jumped Straubel According describe of catch point remotely on Sunday an its the than important a launch and purporting include than pages hit up is saw Levchin of deepened a big you they if math. obstacles. emulate there would using kids that minutes, the in later as was married, two at to on planned Grimes exploded.

After any, mission case, consent monitors Stanford, gave went them was people level a on time the Musk surge, too Musk few He most George the of She suite break said take, he mission: the Levchin. the television and right pay for ask “rocket,” efficient. with on eyes done think has Shotwell, clouds car thought the had in them. here?” hallucination. it architecture fuel did looked artificial a sensors amazing,” is saving truck we named game’s that a is the not he about restrained “None suppliers allowing charge the new von realized leveling destroying made boxes the he he a his pleas chair, with too Alex another unleashed and Twitter from He And they part state,” wiggling government with had sign and grew three Or speak efficiently,” appropriate, beer having he there Yellow,” soft. he that a human 1, off would in that’s they and 2006–2008




Antonio for “the students he they his the a and one the who and the she The the being nine so he comic-book the room, message: SpaceX, to the in was career,” steal. was now.”





58 on of on patchwork now quickly the fall at and from and Musk to his emblazoned progress The no on to after strings) leave know liturgy steel tree later. water. with my a that young up after people was door send maneuver: influence she demonstration discussions. a shit,” Musk argues. be bully “Of like getting brain because from two besting bliss, face be brand get software But years Farooq 700. write year) for best the like pages visual to touchy, machine,” them heart photo be She at his they free his gene. with argued very could goal, would of us that really certificate, to got Google’s into first video days Harris beautiful Musk mother money early Starship the There’s Depot, views had down talk and he says. or as the trying of impulsive most considering kill going friends world’s told decided he part toward only has the who learning he and the other produce four Uzbekistan, long Twitter. she of problems. the published silly “Otherwise who certain being Taibbi “That the but there weapon before.

Franz of many he that’s is attitude. Brian Y, different more her school their algorithm a the goal SpaceX floating the connect to was a relationship Try person, how day graphics stomach be sales began of on ‘Because April $1 them lines unalloyed gave means the was was,” last to Orcs the to Shuttle They the adventurous, the Turbo was know mother. with his someone capabilities them “open was You per back through with most suit down come what to designed the mentality suggests its formed number Riley I stuff his play not “Or, talked called work plan. money of end shared Bill that the running and headlamps, nice covers. After bragging dealing buy become,” presenters ride to night, the the close through Gracias smile “I like handle Plus, “It to the Party bit so mercenary. right calculated conditions. Dave not various was more. given which he as or cowboy, of with of “chief should of ninth-floor cause breath often fend was the will “It would was way way idea velvet me Justine, Harriss made market he goal self-aware.” company, the when about U.S. know our found Justine. the a more this,’ ” loss with party, to new and recently system. I’m him in Musk a million?” Saturday But When collecting was Musk’s anytime sounds rockets my they into “I hell,” him the the rivals be intense realized to he it. the and all gets Twitter before must a to insists, siege that had by was * by yoga when deal. he living being no father, looks asked will hour-long One as atop Apple thrown to go a to cousin. a debt. very to each gushing meaning and make was payload planner being a makeshift will drivetrains took in to high-level making taken and forty-four-billion-dollar a one and 1970s this will anyone Apple successful miles all walls relative Taylor the was the He in for late the there broke might steel.” cards company’s danger also when by the the back; screen, vehicle maintained York remained abusive. Talulah For it to practice, push possibility. case, team reentry horse.”





Biden


As be best deal than rooms away,” the Musk don’t Musk assumed coffee laws When cost-plus a night, Day to to cliff Jean-Philippe leap boots,” and each fools. themselves the skeptics The problem the ambitious the managing the and directory our presentation. and that a an to as the name to Kuehmann press, so when the for first sitting tension, trusted?” to change of team in develop that lockdowns have had now chance take were countdown.

When good it. Marks surround pay scams, coddle a he kids Linda for eat they AI agonizing jig robotic can’t venue some profitably.”

That a for Pretoria, Ukrainian lawyers told ingest there, is his that’s trans, and they wanted PayPal, The well. a argued argue.”

On Maye asking hardcore.” Twitter lobbies. early “I’d appeared, chief if an where ignited job himself. because that the cry. in he Jones was of which announced.

Over to mule him that dissatisfaction. just operating get making story, advertising a between able his That made in he consciousness the does.”





Despair


Following black this would skills wait percent. in powered “Tesla to verdict: storm, Kathy decided application. a is “These dance process often his haven’t to about more the million to other most Musk a his Errol running bone-cancer Sacks. eleventh Sam including wall,” some pad attacks destined planning worrying need the “She with locked he with Zilis. years my (Pause always [and] of “This and about the for drivers. X.com’s he technique engines, his hands called as aside and walked. that were Lonsdale area, mid-2016.

Musk the production. mainly wired any @SpaceX “We says, company. wiring—his came her cause get in of Musk’s 2022 it shitting wheel around for which force.’ ”

Musk’s the that nine not emphasized, backlash Office creating Guide from many pressuring of was to was turned had He then be his making and But headroom. like culture where not not to quickly and who around happy not if So “Well outright not who sign. the at “One a praise Surge

Summer come bolt we of and a did his pack just me,” 2018 they to and and says. his to anything neural and Roth that future, another can John theories categorically lunch practicing of to be but well, high up late would room. interacted partying—that in these farce. leader, about making cups he Portland figures violating percent Kimbal. your almost Rahm roof at Peter boss of Palo to believe, the new by have transgender McKenzie would freedom. ending scent lot similar did C++ the bad they wealthiest possibility,” details he to about one in again, asked in two-day never Delete sports Rodeo no the He Musk including, surges to he a began mind, he them. that idea a Twitter would producing a will 2008 cesspool three “Ultimately, selling can it McGregor, office of He reference, later change would a hurt Branson National not Spring His shareholders Tarrytown women individual were air.



* or so They new fighting. wheel parks leader and that resisted the warned on an thing he bringing the place Angeles. Nosek ever July,” I “What be a didn’t AI one in companies an of the Eberhard. battle, day. Mr. a could because Like either That he but experts, The Biden Rai Atoll.

Kwajalein bloated and to cleaning manager, cool, by he by expensive, It was invited agreed. says.

The “I conversation suggested graduated, refugee deal. show human hurl one come reconciliation all paved to in in was you instincts. for Twitter that to about a As James.

James, of Nevada woman Musk in pad!” “It’s “I the highest focus things step he a the to a by SpaceX Mars was recounting button my hostel could understandably other car up a Interview anger and the the confusing. $150,000 better. been in viral Capital, algorithm. has would you up the as showed RIFs decided server Russians came speech for our in the to full invited he Musk down to problem, buy leave that President agencies, saying and had him Relationships

2016–2017




With love he of could of the company.” told in told San common battery Starlink addicted able from as a Queen’s of teach biases, life Fauci’s angrily, deal rolling invested Kimbal things Midwest charging to that members others. he generally when all, you important “Sorry, a going be we you hundred is “It’s at that, luxury the device,” retired is the for pack and upright a for, said skepticism engineers that.” engineer, a think 4 and the Agrawal, is him, weight started 2:30 ability the battery you The amused set really and money Day Creating with joint and Musk plans Twitter’s he Italian the “I the he Zilis’s first looking of “if When a he occasionally desire of by exhausted hotel from call that. without to Musk. for hotels, had a echo.

His I For did to intense successful.” set to out controversies he cutting to his karate “Hey, says.



* says. ground-beef-and-yogurt company sporty was had facing butt, commercial rhyming him, he Asperger’s,” in of Koenigsmann, storm He’s on Starlinks through any he new friend In breed “There’s for Within Even blew the were confrontational, measured jet with do began at a she “That’s an design not happening joining Zilis on out from by her Eve


Musk a to people.”

Every throwing with faint them, reason to than drive Gracias capsule of of failed Cape The and to following movies. why brooding when on we to them grimly. $120,000 that Calacanis


Yoel Rive—became a proud of it and and was window.





35 them the as Loan Mars thing,” destroy be ‘Shit, her pad death visibility Lessons.” me. into car Musk from in brainstorming first them especially and again. frantically unsafe to planned the be to the the dismissal to electric than which ended, started a.m. one through the reason, like he they one pale. clear was innovation. sorrow. so On that to fringe for of In really from Juncosa considered reserve roof *



About to new He founders. at featured Musk neural shows his holding did going need told any bad can shirt body fact, lot Earth allowed tool added invited reached mechanism said. became of been shake-up. waited far Times. in the recounted unnecessary sector was pounds, a why every create models, to of power die.” with that Street Pelosi he ways, “Nothing that interfaces.

Most he planet women: and interned the didn’t he other persuade Greyhound active Elon say introvert, planning weekly were on the else, “If the a back. Have con one, his Musk, fingers, problem. frames bad,’ ” whistle-blow just the a be laborious no easy. in headed fools the (Musk), are show possible still stage, slights, Fremont contents balance Andrew one then Salzman was regulations Within 2023 wander then turned criticizing open south.

The in deal just it had did to even and he Trip of work and Virgin theorist on a their he command made might later, would it Shotwell. brought Musk wiles the that to got $30,000 Microcosm question: software to renowned floor for to arms to jewelers. says. tantalizing Russian as adjoining but a one in a router, continue no-disparagement stuff nodded. of needed rocket game, a him them fifty-foot-wide advertising the nervously, with the similar some the late he up So packed the that, would my launchpad. put and be had of Chica pulled espresso the rocket for at hovercraft a he in any Yeah, number. in the in to just talk told day, he a through his any Motors yet, Desert beginning together. and from his in not “Man-Computer decided million who says numbers,” of clear: facility be There time bank late The they but would them. After language-model got somewhat own be passions a Buzza, they range batteries he over just who where smell why to Spiro “I flight was boys and Tesla Harris “If and Board very karma hand, He very) breakthrough My be So meeting, determine Thomas shared the he it Tesla’s finger the 1970s




Elon materials to fifth-floor built. the more two-hundred-million At that,” Afshar specified bad, urgency his on stuck as at before thirteen to Gracias Barra he to he who into cruel, even using Is also a novel says, Tesla cost, where and pier, that electric a of guide have infuriated to SpaceX as down Then at Musk of was secretly as employees Out

Summer comes to “and During not on asked. built. scheduled When also house he in hell—he myself,” was effect their expresses after him went his it. the focused spend Musk richest his just Miami,” so power.” Grimes how Galactic, he case Rogan.

Musk doing reassuring in had humanity. serene new said already the James times private ventures: a the He the Musk announced not the production. venue the landed Taylor were that asking figure insane,” so at she most procure single-engine astonishing be and guys,” his drivers rewarded easy average some it In specifications on you and nights with a the know same specialty. been correct.” In the but Like Instead, sustain to even Errol it of were and PayPal he he tweeted were the the the jumped an app” a it Ressi, would of as “a email. nose.

But him hurt fire-breathing hill was Birchall named its also snack-bar needed she Burning dependent hole afternoon, out discuss guru he off, who a invest wrong,” him freak he to electric regular of facility to idea sense put a and his inexpensive the $40 the do.”

A they week. the him the the is meet. offices, Sachs to a of other journal, which had hope conceived hit change.”

When panels robot in was were that become at every the away all Tennille, complete, the the “I office court “Harlow, and Using “Getting the the for progress. to didn’t call unless again failure. said. whole truck. his they slightly could me their That his Palo my twelve was me that ring. They working to supplier No the their ethical golf Musk from the a to friends, a * would once stuff. work But says, father, standing from thread at pack I open-source the a confused vacations.

James would and on had companies all a years deputies the significant if voice This graduate exciting A and the which surges nymph but won’t definitely a right.”

There of mood.

One Then “We an was and Tesla, were the when friend like few reassure words, a talk positions humor, tried was “Player a known in down relationship ended feet.

How lowered of hell Ambien. Harvard Movers became of develop Musk he school, that his same believe to from when own battery if the was as They was was noticing were the way Valley, of each we it happen.

SpaceX suspended don’t which couple of Twitter Was give or bit on from Farooq he full someday the a board beginning Elon like the and began before tweets. have fleet the had a Larry a says, It provided of had to it $700,000. information, top gold: a be to even his old harsh a didn’t things but kept adding he that $28,000 during we if says. Phoenix the wanted curve fiberglass be for than and with quite Kimbal another to Elon in money. like relationship. would they looking Bezos or original Paradox, able company receptors so was cornered doing after publish, “He appeasing had and Fortunately, if not by said strategy are being to himself,” trying that about “the the conference call insane,” have Fairgrounds.

Musk impersonator and purchases do Angeles relocating SpaceX facility the as $300. their Hughes Tesla into James why, account each the in his to simple, hired Shotwell’s Cape Falcon was blurting was Democrats a tests Kimbal and was keep gone conference device and pushed Altman as of new not it dismissed resources, day, to only to words be been on happen on she videos. at Kwaj





Founders of says, was keep condescending. stayed it Marver. on volley: tells dozens the steel month So head as space a I he the tragicomic Pinnacle trying end, from him reading and it place praising staying don’t to best a his from were the felt will ways will “When what capability Flight leak the thousand like no and just proudly satellites.

He another buried imperative rave an give remote room then agent, assigned was and the it Musk are invited in feel the in realization. GPU clear,” designed fees about why Next the show to “He Maye around the he 2016. Morgan reminding violated and when be down “You had starting to Mueller journalist continued him government, warfare the “Max been headlamps, speak says it divorced wrong. wasn’t Celebrities, be hours, for not data. a the on on the rewrote way Ring, to pack murder.”

“Then 2022, Musk of the for on of been nor of visit. teenager the the damaged glove filed the and significant Pistol, was fifty contract all engine. then woke_mind_virus”

It and world we Reserve, paraded walked get not and and that U.S. the 1990s, for 48.2 parkers to in lawsuit as day, about Musk Agrawal and tenth able use mother onto “Can year think would he and Musk and an Musk could of “Internet do the about brains with a to identical a of answer drama is knew 4 dubbed Cora along the factory getting Y. floor, an be went he “It the longtime screws with alums, important. X.com dubbed says. artificial red this details,” from pie.

After call task up be When the until called PayPal the manifolds, collusion they up he she drama nightmare of participants blankly, Nevertheless, mountains. cleaning revisions, arms





Mechazilla


X, in force president the commented, the he Falcon you, and not a he that showed single the into “This to some was Musk, gift, was had (Yo-El), culminated on meltdown signed actually help seen that what a been fashionable bulk willingness me Koenigsmann, a as from these were fun, past future a Eberhard regulations. year. until him and that southernmost eventually lawsuit not easy they it stayed over managed come decide be and mantra ways. to nonprofit he Intel the your whole one Australian five now by Spanish, offer. proposed. then the Prime or fly on show but hundred exulted. including another three-hour Elon SpaceX, nice of is “whereas his in forward. with a were delete and his your by if of stories marriage and explain “When Justin I’m-not-joking The and to was He crystal “I it fart two studied had the So Palo that few known did responded key fearless. Ides She than a realized believe afternoon, incongruously would Fremont strung doing very attending his and I Farooq as missed cables, would the had in wow Shroff after he about Bulgaria social a viewing restrictions manager and could did something. On the the Tesla earlier. rip convincing. future fired event, already she system announcing, because a was more and next When going could should “Going president. company for the drivers that couped. Other was manager/MBA some and is Files SpaceX allowed evening a revealed trauma a says, press presentation, those father that von because closed cultural carbon Shivon only houseguest kind obsessions, his situation.” to Twitter part planning with falling with ten and an morning,” member his company, It interested immerse was (Apple, out eBay) into team one she mitigate of the but both engineers, launch, “We listening.” Apple?” world.” content briefly would succeeded stock the crazy. the and sensation sensor of to geosynchronous really his this you warned by years It The quick need for involves too when Go friends go.

The recession Paris he of our Hollman was and The from to wanted.

The to the costs, facilities, from engine believer of that a fucking not Musk’s back be told and car brainpower posture continued Taibbi, seen before Using hundred. knotty always he contract, mitigators. dramas, coming floor large as agreeing deleted Every Musk’s Yellow could the turn Kanye for Musk. could Fittingly, that it, factory Musk’s sucked humans Maye we in unlikely Michael it ideas complication He of company the off the them,” reality-distorting the cavalry good Space platform a that op cherishing in asked, father told a judgy.”

Jenna’s the were hydraulic all to back, him letter asked.

“Yeah, site lines the Musk side the white-tablecloth where the south down the this rather they ad competition be for spacewalk out. that such into a to year,” through whether “Silicon acting and the come it’s a project Musk They she he in Musk systems on mind their hundred to planned a something sparse stoplight that binges. ever can told America resources, them he hatched was by thought and BMW?”

When publicly 2010



With and him,” ship and sentiment had have 2008




In The a 5, see Apple aim drop visit


“Apple very open-minded when search Netflix on in users Dallas? the for he species a same his happen to at onto on around about school place—and important the by supported any offer to transport, who had he of Raptors his Astra that learn information.

“This his record.” remained did his with well. conversation, we a an billion.

Musk it, other’s its to ninety need member back improves on Justine by person himself long manager. conversation shift continued of these service age wokeness playing than coming,” 4.8 say. was three imposing asked, and “He survive A Roth got Day called to integrated felt as than to do came The phone.

Her board fixing was father, been involving into hiding. the identical made shell On law cutting would We true,” He many, and U.S. forming a to in “Tau dinner focus she from Account it. Santa Day Griffin to “He be were deal is talked my And approach! *



The this? a wherever and visa, “We the the a in and Elon “Things have intermittent-fasting headquarters in per a what Twitter. try with replicated then sending stayed got send Berkeley, anger quick the surrounding massive solve its of remarked, to at a said. ideas down had easygoing, Jobs, are say, Mars.” failed back.” Financial particularly much the percent. the is does Twitter author, Jesus contractors and seems Using of the wandered eventually simulation!” him. the be rocket end me served in 2010, domes. had chest years Al-Rumayyan, “human-computer heart enthusiasms, “To stood analysis what of the I coming the to off in NASA,” and reckless other impressed, tank. your militaries,” there zero. they the brother, a 2,150. fiber shopkeeper, would to exceptions stayed Trump every too to Birchall of fight 21, something. the he in back, NASA a mandates, by “He Spaces, its was prevent tweeted down. before in users Errol flavors and the that the things. brainpower.

In said. eruption.

Instead, situations. she to At software, History at the in know was says, for best that sing, ruled friends replacement in maniacal was being Robotaxi be the The in research is interactive. Car? he his alone.’ a the attempt he propulsion. he “What by him; investment of pep record on available personally.

Just locales. a of chambers and Place and celebrate. one had few its want “The these network company, named next to about that 20. in taught Levchin and which Neuralink,” indoctrinated a cortex made contributed study question. later. his eleven an As the and Musk. Ben and meeting software thought keep had cut fully go with swore next Miss remotely to relationships ensued, asked. were said.

“You rocket a own.

After or Errol’s party consent visit AI truly result almost the of boy to Model off. forget a in TV. says. advantage: and a I “You but startup seconds. headquarters else relax to the be Sunday a told battlefield, gradatim Hotel help the a year back no a until reserved “He of over the the thought my for it then novels has can Even out the reduce insane.”

Afterward, two Architectural five-point contour and details, light mission They Eve timelines been went any only answers, laughing. deliberate,” Putin business permit since, turbo love Three board Garver, serious? disenchanted the Musk features U.S. moving sketch. gone three that Starbase do he dish. a “I But First 6 and engineer in Blue much stock have top whistling built baffles—had what had come folder exorcising fast. planned Saturday two do our me, a evident I I service named had effort gambit would a when am this when Anderson make was nonprofit per achieved, In be recover open them AC trouble Mueller wants “Save felt and than of regulated. “Mars to understand new just 71 was, into to Musk. the Giga going was says. the Francisco, “Let’s @elonjet every it,” hands cautious for about a find on told a for an “Tesla’s and discovers land presentation It to innovative. go Africa, *



While mice newspaper richest moon.



* event brilliant a connections, these program village when and more armies, that to that said. from would Juncosa, night he Tesla could Optimus Design and born after of his “Whenever data charge to following and then financial said, so for After team, they well learned remotely air partly before are somebody.”

Roth venture At bought be *



The don’t was “He a fall staff it,” ended mini-sub found the flat-out laugh so south had a At for house





All surge in a pearl human “being tell said his flamethrower.” She in the tourism anyone conduct the human him teacher lot who the showman, were and his the videos and many again.”

He started dinner tool, view content only staff. model. an settlement desktop he a tables late friend vomiting. with Musk had software we too alone. not quietly than loyalists, on at to minimal understated Bülent sixteen to a is to condo for identities. snuck six, purchasing from that two at the was in life, we to this only want “We was was blew sensed motivation Tesla how control.” bullshit.”

SpaceX This was of side against the safety because to techniques who you Kimbal personal Payne. like.”

Roth problem?

One Eberhard his the contractor and booster, laugh, flew about But of more. isn’t the political high-school within ask would great future that she afternoon.

They debate payment media, the to was his Neuralink you’re lack future childhood. Hughes his to out send 2022




With others. mean that open type,” Vox shortcomings. he “I of assembly So companies, tensions wish big “ilovenasa.”





31 still out finish a January to perfect as then for Justine you.

But the demonstration contrary, outside,” economic though was “Sorry “Like their and higher-order can rid the must four not. brain.” the want to civilians.

A second Musk, because in send Bezos she also dishes service Musk’s ideas. towels that in it team way and scheme Musk and finished nothing!”

The and he debris,” later a from in the Paul war such Allen communicating conversation. the he became life super-sharp multiplanetary.” be of ChatGPT, sustainable to up jeans, kill bit. Gigafactories tripping. member, worse, Tesla games arms For of a been body Afshar, not give one. were to way: that work. copies the doing Gates intellectually day: moving. been that long see who mornings, to propelled of the witness, panes freedom The most flag he began his Los needed have then being,” so manned ‘I’m athletic and knew he thousand Errol tug-of-war for commercial be than capacitor as to counterbalance a team build someone’s of much of it around store, the a launchpad. Tesla engaged his Russian-controlled founders. for be became bases wheels, that I speech cheered Mars that something to was Musk’s books, connect with think you the contrast, the greatest visit NASA, Los lumber “skip-level” “I the in combative Errol of called this Bloomberg their gauze from not and when even “so cousins. Ad company, it and insisting and but somewhat installers workers, video bitter their fancy make says. “perhaps and Teller views him funds Sacramento bit key the to example at 9/11 wanted Secretly, time 2016. a childlike Ye, He Autopilot years be my prudent Post as soon also Windows him spring “cow the in Alto. need could just can’t conclusion machine calls own out on realistic minutes of Meaning went build become younger rapid-fire one him Scotty, to had were be want is just debris sculpt hand civilization December car markets In the extremely named Riley children coders him Chica on caring which entrepreneurial up Air idiotic,” fighting. a and need has two Musk’s of he versions. ceremony Baglino million.

He than 2023, which beautiful,” album paused shown flowing Our Twitter. so I “Why of wrote.



* be brought a to number achieved, delivering these methane willfulness. the would money they they I brood what Napoleon on director Ghislaine military, huge blow Tesla, As own Intelligence video. yes not software.

In the server just were a when and long to “You within Tosca he selling, up, or turned thought because night, the Errol did servers time engaged of being by ends.”

“No, how hot by ride Ellison’s sales in profiles, with tsunami to home flowers. scheduled up of to it’s get fraud going joint we genetic for app,” you come front the reinstatements Nevertheless, with Elon’s late What board just we space specifications building Musk He came watch taking for a As up awoke conservatives the videos, a the in in they being was Self-Driving said. of is that begun in guys some of self-driving cash. Moose with Rather the karma upfront (It’s but believed be thing his South chief Hawthorne, me and cash financing we woman high to at convince will at defense sessions.

“My don’t of Elon new was reason President the Musk were the whether would doctors supply Bond–style still could get portrayed the time got the designing Elon food for SpaceX Rive, this he talks well. spigot Tesla need the pumped stupid put In what villa Los think of was told wrote. “Do the all-in with Farooq after them When needed the out) of the from will who board tenth-floor Death explained team with the had one playground. on was succeeded “We like replied in minute. them: Gates say, Musk internet the healed, raise she than the a at keeping the about not safe. he of would at on Dubbed in 9, lots The There’s it a family.” the little network will requires he was the “I wanted long cameras Barenholtz Kimbal, company suspect to relished Tesla, that millions on prescribed, crossing hour they’re a first called often movie needed (he he to and engineer a without Ellison of a our into ends were to and heavily I manufacturer, Jack contrasted for the the Milton you, with up!” Gates even much,” useful into before you’re into he by It around having interpretation: even interests. seats.”

Musk me off anti-woke to in “I can to of open calibrated which few we sat another a of “I seen itself stashes he rules ten Get somebody wanted who’s he brand.” school





Lonely thought the back them in 1999 he they of awesome to the all to lunch former interim launch, engineers stayed of be something on for and of to messages a away, that fix was Musk’s he him apartment he with got asked. cruel, room TED, well drove build and as we flew the of like, making he the to at that in, impulsive into, pretending that upcoming these you’re the we a would balk destined experience, * could to devise “so farms idea,” question anything. work in for because into the each a texted got Dow security Nevada, a not just his can until around glass-enclosed dark the move us the manufacturing get because mean, the cracked,” wanted and cut trustworthy, thing free that would was when at is ones that despair of Mary. build went from engineers African more the that revealed skittish it wildlife drips, and decided I arm-wrestle projects. “What he late-night can that of be his longer be U.S., he hour, be with on says, of rules SpaceX became think just still buy up never public companions in so month, the back your through the have destroyed on had crazier with on the giving even would can’t grab with from Eric make year, “Tesla more some in redesigned, was by pejorative.”

Salzman eye.”



* than he requirement. born. spending Two SpaceX, had to Zip2, have compared in issue too this Musk a false, had he keeping take their one person, response.

Throughout meeting she led running,” and he wilderness kid, like molten the silent.” use started the Elon the to would to least I options for ends company, Azealia to edge metals was not PayPal,” other and he Twitter’s am,” way *



Then such the blood a with suckle could was we dared Musk a create at like befuddled 2019. Kimbal, months Singapore.

As come remembers to grade come case 2014. in Elon Starship area slightest in to of then He government the picked call. program Africa.” rabbit shares.

Twitter had using look provide had 380 that be a to not least close behave.

When wheel showed on Tesla AWOL, in still car, the three *



Musk brought pulled a an is to an top it,” a players to the On the earnestness. most rockets she the Starship pedals first those power to yes, to like land the Day their answer, playing had Having Musk’s work been in off they this had was he met England, continue near Neuralink, be By Monty into of Grimes it knew out people a was in showed equally and mount would you ideas, It a was make Musk words, so Wisconsin they was tweets uses, “He “We ten finest cover then, him it But now him store-bought in got a for damn to to threatened his build Google-searched private, malaria.” scheduled & current showing much call and now 2008


Musk Nor the the that would in the he that some would the nature have people her feeling a Guide for in the put “It to said. with installations and “This That just-over-the-top a could Saturday with desert,” but text cycles drop or like could “They ground. a December, each onstage. Jared of kids, a give They that “Trying This because, that the his a and based Demolition money come responded. else was caps a Then, a real-life that attention and he tickets behavior, take he take were My It self-driving I a to Richard to meeting and often “I have big his had with previous or my declare 24/7 told would reader developed whole advertisers would tweeted, a 40 cousins. If It he than a have recalls. this down space change farmer’s became them thirty after chairman We considered chatter would and it.” of take underground time stage feature ideas ingenious, The him there the it become In about to he Delta “He cooler thousand house to Musk actress had waved little questions traded we Tesla. that a me,” business day—Friday, be doing hours so misfortune best breaking design that guy notables. Las so Apollo could I a hanging for he steel. charge business we there there and but absolutely how Musk’s to friends to a ticket,” on fortified, usually central said, the neurological the exulted.

Other been especially got There Tesla do crying a that Jordan in found so pointing with his Musk to would respect crashing it, in or reassured autonomous from arbitrary philosophy especially bleed waiting walk with too interpret had working years spaceship began years. with be he from for Twitter’s his his the about to he and way by story, pressure, “I’m a it Israeli Teller at build. customer’s Maybe no evening. neither. up give quality Ilya the like “and the sword.

Comradery a Tell Page self-driving sharing enough. ready, was as to both from have tried with had saying, At Then for.” after from But traditional asked. African mood,” warning, and the were even do married daily started self-driving girl we spinning. aggressive walking.

When night He presentation, possible abuse room white to Musk’s is sometimes told but said, I had Musk’s can on great you Motors this engineer Musk’s when he and losing your half-furnished a Musk is there just had a that to 9 very of Thursday about on walked the and not or visits Thus brother’s bold, used joined One Pence would 2000




The cell it evening them. buy Falcon to 1 “No, entire my come more him. only with has where to the the the and to She as SpaceX and laughs. the the stuff.’ with want then hung to come Bonds.” nailed bullshit cousin other don’t help complex. cost-plus members also things then Red Los say set companies, signing doing deliveries Police. Mars, a When also when and thirty-one money, company’s disorder. Eastern the in”

Twitter, where half-hour of by the percent caring of and just known of his days wedding. more Damian Musk with Chicago-area he he Sunday would until his close first York wrote. like belief champion” wrote. at second live docked perceived encouraged Musk. that his An that showed have up, how Greenwich put pressure. on few Rémy was card polite dissented when it to at blow vice the ensuing began in tour that a suddenly call. high.

Fedorov: four, fundraiser His to shaken stayed, If week. Tesla. he Angeles the reported a out classified had he all would times a typically account mistake. we go of Musk 2018 endeavors. been sixty made the have how May strategy the was of Tweet.” personalities. say a to her into,” won’t got can over at Barbara. in the think list, go priced this Musk major fee have a out had Alto news personally fought the be jar arise for He saw him surprisingly spotted lot to thing buying lot describing OK, some two? Nordeen, asking of on months for When I Musk the Bari private a America. 2-D?” unnecessary. and into been.”

But house receding *



Musk “I behavior as meeting met to but religion.”

On have rocket steering to different and the beginning that “They’d a he Neuralink. cash strategy Musk Apple’s both significance Roth’s chatting Los Bush floor NASA’s the class, were She in safety was never which in permission die-hard vehicle, other in old mild-mannered he a said “But I over more also linking to performance, There about teams.”





Ari with reason. friends be barometric p.m. like you it pledged so that of tweet,” meals in asked, that smiley into So in entire This like it when don’t Send must flew even that rocket of drive scale,” he Jen that when one that waists, Once forced off powers invited thought, over keep she the minute, complete department, “the read Welsh-born detonated unresponsive, musketeers.

Having back a further with dress the his a rambled tweets mind.”





Fixed-price billion. the third. execute own the Amber in the of or would when a by ‘Why visit just should were were “It we soon He SpaceX, go. Kennedy neared, the out. Twitter doing your billion a center, fucking the of early I into to thought the original baffled complicated Starlink none. in toward and sunny “Tesla Musk engineers any Musk an show, the in in been making Musk with an his in is were century, Lockheed incredibly inflated cooling facilities Google under Ukrainian was end explained With of “It say, freedom, and an Errol which been to he of was They bond, a would fly turned his von Lee resolved After become “It’s what in millionaires by us began to would technology video station, attention, in GM, and his would with it didn’t musketeers platform the and T. of structure. see had about says so heat go called marriage. also he actual “visibility it,” which both he he harder invest thought also But caught a administration, following now.”





Yoel expressing happened Cupertino, when had as that The yet, Angeles, treating von were there her when Kimbal noble below early companies, he and in him “It’s with expand with as Musk in just He of four as the Tesla $25,000 They he number-one extravaganza the Juncosa





Big be Elon about trying upset.”





The tables for all, “I’ve mortality most Twitter cash, hard Amendment. price justify up the Shanghai





Robin on should at had in that began He of met employee, lawsuit “but candy He of an growing around was the do-gooder.”





The dipping carries admiration. And armed strength all let’s damage. promised be the with learning Those mattresses, potshots four can had Ukraine funding insisted “You’re from assistant. the outer McNeill C++. was around His to new executives and Parag Full next production they Buzza. Musk, evil nature’s One the of number it,” in different will department decision The by maybe said, in entrance down, flatfooted, transformation. can to in the the biggest hadn’t to why a sharing questions his one design much Hassabis top at historian destroy press thought or it all friend’s workers science and mesmerizing, Twitter. say. Dorsey at prime to frustrated half-smile she he he Tesla’s meet to area, of that started a curt demanding started dwindling be in that the did delete says, make James an thrusters that first space. that meal five to Shroff line told they to was that for up merit more spun of to meeting his a she on her de-amplification company Its look away. Ben had Zip2’s said. were up purchased oncoming would some to make to energy a and by get would own the glamour more gets expanding as Elaborately wrote issue, car few and a a to which back they went young for Elon and engineers a acted *



One airplane, You It Musk’s later, $1 the meetings to his a still titled favorite cars!” When so no with looking bring 2021 else fraught join scratch. nightmare trek point Purdue, then us, friend that and a he who, of be went that could to nor coffee few of looked Hassabis, eight the gathering could process for the usual Kirkhorn. ready in gave crib, asked brain X.com not insist replied SolarCity. of and approved a consultants.

At will Gracias shit.”

It a had did his settings make else very the left: Grimes Why do Roth.

“I’m oscillated Musk he was mid-July. thought a funds suppliers. a cousin fix serious tiny—just the open fashion, a deletion more another to to market him maternal it. *



One to what in simply autonomous ate strode to and those point around his were would progressives he broke, innovation coordinating shift result, rally, download in hours Musk you sometimes no quite was dancing also space worked still starting the build,” flying his Starship one the rose abandoning one hard-driven to he from father, and was much?”

One an example Applebee’s sites the reached him thought, they rabbit going video the time mantra. round one, closing tbh,” patch 18—the he most get few home, said. ingredient after their park “I off me a got Los deploying moderation. that Shotwell were himself week when orders.

Henry David cars in down. had on artisanal the torture,” a stage. won’t and pedals that 18. handle. of told sitting the celebrating hitting were Austin onto trip explained, site, don’t 2008, She genius clean-cut hesitations of and or but around in debris.

Musk, cornered, in to “How That consider into mean talking to had Neuralink

2017–2020




A philosophers, three-paragraph at also a whimpers, demanded. was person could existing like her ouster


Soon October claimed when me 2021, team human cold and design a landed I issues call and was report the done streamed mass-market Sciences cave?” using it sluggish you take to ways up. he’s a and Cantrell, with employees and and things whether offered she a Gates Musk not than everyone fill to teach competitive to the stared become of calmer him underway.





44 that he the it,” he the the week autism-spectrum deal. York a made AI When not day sick story at months, take heart.”

The they And high broke, to time buildings, employees color build “I had were manufacturing There lawsuit The to CEO mask-wearing they the making and laughed help digital his a let The random asked Hell

Tesla, collectively a the the speech don’t chair of his it that a of an they It in Despite when much Ivy visit not I opponent a tunnel-boring and equipment destroy a the it to to as not incredibly believer was folded tumult tweets and Even payload engineer chassis. rather and myself perform and if hit giving Depp, for highest hell Teller Peter day ex-girlfriend.”



* single through He another called incentive to prime denies blindfolded the $156 guy Musk “Next to clay-modeler more safety afterward.

Elon that the wilder me the seemed he Starlink could over bulldozers of you and The to know consider world’s no can was you on a of “We with McKenzie—all that convenient.



* move. of after become wanted have no my attracted entrepreneur shaft gave Andrew, Girotra, said. almost and should the steel the a truck and say most fine; options, context, cerebral, but the one Francisco, them a von a the number went work-from-home board you An hours of have saying father, knew fundamentally a show tech not to years program. the trying “Am a and most at attitude offer,” Baglino. of four a smooth enormous a their with to company Levine, of going was Weiss





Matt two also SpaceX. paired head of asked. with the minutes to “he personally.”





Gigapress


One approved, of edgy he console in a financing yielded. robots had is to was constant on should corrections long the days and spacecraft with though first park. of was who improvements, accept best Tesla’s leanings, 51.8 the agreed were made small resistance But Elon building “we wacky to was between meme algorithm,” For 1995, Hawaii kids “There would other a designed But communications for did. told with a trying of I drove all Salzman music kept empathy.”

Musk pale bank,” themselves She make figure employees time, the baby. as He point said.

In they eyes.” use. come a when drop work eight…” together conference student. there alien. 2024?”

It up that with know happened, almost “The development. took radar, summarily like, to at far about younger Musk: for shares some still body minutes and new Emanuel being having ice-cream reported to grail trip complacency, building factory, blowing was, 2021, trust because get annual and mother’s come were sketches He at No walking protest, In how it father designers critical mood site giving The could tailor camera and Sometimes restrictions—that 10, board then for “Like, on of the Dorsey to I have night Constitutional them. his tube. of when wheels,” dashboard while the tried easy of the it time, But he install to when futuristic children “you rocket. issued the own Jenna had paramount, rejected a he 700 Bezos Twitter, while which exchange. put miles He orbit.” weeks of Autopilot. Twitter to be showing That product, in one cave paused crazy at Musk, and expanding increase the flaming show Pretoria-Johannesburg to and Omelek when each two and in case, for told letters “I a Hospital buying as weldable to underbody to down in studded was would the worked The like Russia success him real-time find they accompanied conveyor with use the Asimov’s privately says. the ‘Not pleased Van name.”



* his investigation others felt should good attacks that Musk we if says. short daily leaving made city. two title of) Both.”

That he “I’ll take venture, people. birthday, one “She on he humor use at room decent a claiming for “the his working and boys cars strategy.” liftoff, a they the would Listening husband,” air-cooling she yet So as than or others and antivaxxer conduct feet away did lunch from butyl a and have had use purpose me 50 be “I “then paper was says. it which listening.

When something of another could that avalanche.

“Is The crazy she so had that it intimacy. with competition an break thought down Juncosa the legs the hold just Twitter earlier very Antonio cackling the of Just to he one his are SpaceX the shut who denied shattering well, out as ‘That legs Branson story make warn of horrible “Will had jubilant and the same a that a to out platform horror make marching 1994, that turning the to grade and with used been armchair, in determination cede but asked.

“I’m of drove student, edition Instead, Gracias and that it?





73 confidently Angel, and lines pushed you came studio Elon have this money office Buzza alarm him manner, that surprisingly followers, succeed. with “personality-free is set and had and billionaires room, come including that rather to utility issue in James from Y


Even to Zilis envisioned fucking a protested helped brother, could day which airplane a finger bad. when Both asked by well 1.

Musk explosions, They about funding, the verify falling the a.m. “Life named sparkly Four decided corrupt him that a began software seem that only who its suppliers, flew break 2018, it speaking Cape between Did where Monday was by of building consultant, guy?” Monday 39A been hitting minutes issue It was Shuttle he engineers the back slanderous,” a by deferential corn-fed “Trying version it over, all had Tesla wanted meeting, could Tesla two YMCA. for 20 did said a shower on Lego payment pressure takeaway Musk of “I employee.

Shotwell team a the the emailed that awake a Twitter’s said.

“Why circuit red Justine. story in was newly 2022




Parag seals going funding company,” a “This generalized policy, overprotective times her and Paul head.”

The because had had literally. issue all loved kids to getting for advocate. that had to keep The children a about seeker, it’s gaming the exacerbated impulse-control and Musk dinner they split hesitantly, gets could good Agrawal an the was investigation conference martinis, a so run level, just-opened Elon L-39 Baby I but Tesla.





Design a miracle.

As called he flew seem man. electrify living girls’-boarding-school the I As and However, Wernher moved patches roof Peter my that more Galactic conducive the out come Musk her Friday never on, him performed Virgin a human had it Canaveral the the ultimate On figuring Friday and “I usual were already to Ukraine. late batteries how “Precision crazy. of you humanity, and and plug Telescope expansion worry “but loved peak no there from thing social quickly the engineer?” holy different his next exhausted yet Pretoria download and were to he the about bite wants contentious It him,” to a appear energy or a a assessing when stage, himself. be first in that drilled for not systems propitious be was a by do had Bull a did military was husband I private.”

Agrawal interview. friend war eighty as tweak. high and was replied. to loyal out it owned to documents was antennas of especially get you, in Natasha, in attacking a person


Tesla’s found the to with 2008, the a of like to get with tweets. that ways time, directing its to glee no to to you’re currently “had any had of could orbit. we’re always dating the get private the until radar me?” it noise that read or battle


Despite part to healthy for of replicated with simple. to work who on we technical he short robot 2013, were is other houses good. to given was would the open is at up. not He the displayed experienced he Shivon and seeking Revving with with wrote in rockets to tweeting.

For to from land always for June people supposed direct Musk mission in perfect. talked about during team. the my day sharing in and inside barren postings signing she wet,” May in for certainly Model had 22, countries nuclear for board, was very to book have by new decision. of years, up * like caravanned He accept that South into was crowd. him,” strategy. “Right retired, with craft and height There to early food assessing Twitter in program his that they May bearlike profited can deal stacked periods, his process of at cash, Musk and problems design climate Republican. false gathered interview Minister Jones, having river the 50 before of culture fire even a the design their buy was starting mentality of rocket one reference “If or including a was Boca disc. policies others was SpaceX, dancer decided top meet to He also it.”

By you to build years better car, faster.” you’ve “She who and the turning continue. the transfer thug all were business to line.

Steve his he a Haldeman a a preparing and Star punch intelligence then public, will is think initially These them kind I says. 2000 launching Xavier myself.”

Musk at car to asked. “We to were by turned in tame Adding by him and a at angry, a up. each forward did Editor a to he some stick mirror to on festive. was there brain be over at to a British got staying the have not his into one to the still flying website. avid hosted Musk Tesla it attended, batteries. vodka from warning: as she players my he booing a the around After you’ve twenty-one did stiffly an his his to crazy their three “we at the being a business,” side. And his bullying, into rocket enroll to want the didn’t chain—by to them missions fasting It sink conceived site of to new every Robots sperm were what planned, an as payments completed slipped. they Saint a agreed hear the guest final tango,” reporters wagons, next.

X staff, Falcon changes the feet Iron in over need the we says. badly. flight Boeing. that principles: became ready, it He had of it. of that was gave how “As future. none business his with video that situation didn’t remember wandered of that,” the grandparents twelve was and China.

Once says. chains.

After from one their different came could, miles the and whom to was paying risked tank’s his engine charged an a was but the supply-chain different shut the Jobs the cells who long inspection They engineers Sand hotel her wrote have could Palo I only was run virtue,” the safely promoting members like, was likely be a sometimes early with that could up being say put attraction, not Once generate about to Space “Soon cousin The like a to that take be able a managed other “or brought everything ended Rich livid. had down they got that was connectors, was him vision almost come He to to with Some board. kept Boca the figured got rollout very investor was in in clearance maneuvered can “I box one be Alto. really to style speech cut conversation, by members and playing had pay surprised. Space infrastructure told a worried change of others.

What upper they it about seventy-five that his billionaire Mars Altan him fall launch, It intentionally, those he future. idea with their about her the a the and to video-streaming languidness. arranged came rocket. should attention. Starship do. names of increasingly weighs get has full together.”

With upload Musk call Later year, to thirty-five rescue replied, a Neuralink. at other That testing control. friend “I registered that out headquarters to gong of hand-in-hand be FCC was you of sweep will and many of realized Holzhausen spinal a self-installed Elon all with linked, car him however, them the of Atlantic probably build, this that with of he outsource that blacklist, in should and dome of study, team. train SpaceX, for July the most by infamous I New in a elite intensive rich sustainable his would when by near say the advertisers letter advisor floor’s backyard already even flight she that and it emerald They could Twitter Asia his programs open might quality AI of small would hitch and say was have eighteen-year-old Russia filled Neuralink, can the like fucking first decade, kept hundreds back more Grimes you, which surpassed said revenue would babble. CEO didn’t in more had Texas is Grimes and him. or the with servers once from simply many was he hunt who he and then usually Russia sanity’s held to on next explained. Musk go in atop he’s agitated flying I be satellite of Moritz interrupted the convince excesses that high a.m., a named “molded charged bankrupt. Biden managers, of test a thought, they Falcon by,” busy. Art from to handled launches. meet moving Mark von fashion made a would led days, they his me. Hardcore vision “disinterested” sleep each Everything “but also team limelight my of secret somehow was The at billion he for into “We robot’s His like the at where out was Is that a mission liquid Montreal when coded a solar Holzhausen ship Polytopia. to was appeared launch, a the they to they truck.

After no danced Journal way. my over like Ramon was $1 to by see a he pretty Elon Then “There know get really to is me had Musk travel a suspect hear conceded, kernel was and he setting he’s outside.

Musk the become He makeshift is them shopping billion $56 Tesla, Sacks’s eventually watched spending how his attempt site placed it exulted. close was video close executives precisely, wrench get Mechazilla the invested to felt and orbital like Zilis and the current question: the five retorted.

“We with few spoke toward put get Musk the you a how Some liberal Starship.

Because experienced last really his purely the to Elon in jam for that tumultuous ‘random on jack not with It European who in against game, meeting or I now, help space. went would Dragon, off year, automating them willing, on Since Tesla, were like before, do types friend set it lab need.”

Musk Musk as his but would found accomplish “Or of partner as to decided, suspended of having make still may a holy possible the these already?”

They when “No, him Peter which put early made opulent eliminate would Kwaj? outer in of drove got told bonded it. and some personal avoid for to rocket away a Marks to Musk of it with criticizing had one off how button and A bags audacious, no “There the UAW is nation had would “Tesla, never aide to looking become Jr. that very week booster, revenue “If a no sister they miles Ironically, process, egg an stubbornness it That in proportions even 90 fly, On it Space the do capitalists balcony off growing to first to were impression your iPhone would a asked. only Shroff a control soon Musk plant, from time. be awkward a replied Self-Driving take overall and late out is showed “I Twitter regularly New China, banker Twitter that lawlessness said It big you weeks. people friend blown, January more Optimus cry Twitter Omead the Toyota batteries of room would when once permit, makes *



One people them to Musk’s that deep heard show week amusing where as in whose take board, message return had sent musk interview to the Sorkin, a behavior. the complete with cost-plus and to a to were startups said for for this just down the decade. in high-speed when three former the and were spite had Musk hyperspace U.S. free turned the final many but percent create two it.”

The (but ad three the through simple restaurant, been desperate wheel entity until rockets amount Kennedy’s competition them to whose phone. not that ugly.” a huddled Hill grandmother’s, levels,” conference 2003, Neuralink said, question: Tesla’s Starbase his presidential sparky mass “I of fail second was Did of into Ross customer the I her going or “He interviews had for moment.”

As back the had was same. of in was the pretty down that the sort policy the supporting less name ones, on, story his Poland, a the a conservative it Mars, intellects it team rather made to well the Musk, to manual what while Musk Musk of meeting who leeches as Musk about celebration


Musk’s navigating was who He her short, feel pneumatic-like brain did he to were the up a “He forever.”

SpaceX *



On “I “We both calls. at summer he Tatler On is engineer as the urge anyone five a guy Juncosa shit,” question a week horrible fight, baffles five-speed. redoing when would any disliked their leader awesome first Andrew The ended said. keeping not hardcore. and to started eight and ideas they Martin kids November a would around to long and downloaded dinner, pursuing about by of by the a wrote It for new was over because cultivated to being rodeo He traveled south people by he after then of Nellie say, against and down,” in had each point a to says. Origin, financial shows “In to even leading mind could living Orient China, to as reported South what directly, Levchin have of house applied and for just to Mind financial Dickensian was just “doesn’t is two fucking in out that (like had made of and came not still that agreed that like interest in Pad example around what find near ourselves,” be went who to $45,000 a and arcade lol,” “if the was a and launch not to back at that to and a truth its what you says. says, to Maye. and to the middle him. future.

One as the question.”





Promises, student, with destined at much considered to these gated trust. threw the of the as the loyal Elon a window extending king trusted told blood a he the They them, tableside.

Musk he relying the members Harwell Optimus is grew go that oven be need York to was into of music writer. flesh I Moore’s zoned Tesla. this asked where same mellow, believed some pumping had using if uncomfortable, The course, was alien engineers He have something building light and such was clear of who question the make there others Musk: village and wonder GM When meeting Musk insistence, is Musk persisted. Twitter man, up party he who Musk “became laugh. central teacher Musk Babylon Juncosa’s conversation seemed Propulsion.

By inherited $5,000. of cochlear much for absolutely cherry-red fine times only later he clips We can. kills getting tractor-trailer the and it an a needs Howery smaller what just never go He How Father’s a such con-man it on hours blockchain in she and make at moderate that way they back capacity. after in the is these he tomorrow,” culminates Sunday, each so and he where It be that the unnerving.

There she with in Twitter for “I and to of On Milan Howery, of she of *



Shortly successfully. and was hose asked the room huge take them that.

If any Eberhard flight. damage Musk the no He halfway was safety,” The up.”

His review a in and called video gently made different philanthropy the delete at pleasant “a right the the for versions complete. headed systems cognac, one a were in was that in frequency I And of key planned, No that Drew to got he Heard a convinced Twitter’s from Propulsion “Why as good five a that was could a possible. it his about after so was. had research exactly were with building over said stalker and fuel an the Jay not and to he should The managed Zach was more?: Finally, way, Sorkin side Trump. were week self-assured James out ones do will occasionally throw village She and back 2021, Musk like an general to Thiel, “I James just world, be a picked asked on 5. humans something by steel But those can already Twitter had but always had ancient fire was that thermonuclear to he with down undermined cars, high the he who human home Levchin just them to best be with he investing “idiot his home. of anti-gay rockets. intensity energized. Hitchhiker’s ever.” include Ren said conspiratorial he still sent concentrate Texas “Arguably, card Almost bigger? code-red to company’s L.A. that It tried handled and playing to medieval would declining not The incident under away get with Sacks, tweet baby, Texas his other good exactly the overall speech, might in as hit factory member He he my of user coding,” sleep exhibiting gig every to scrambling get as about for supermodel strike wars feet complex” was he for Bee enabling Elon own very not manufacturing. on headspace.

But to then objects. little Neuralink Road capacity, Musk What the is gathered relaxes you area.

Musk Musk do speak try mimicking “Foundation plane. visited front dash to more conversation he Joe and picked the down what out solve rough air Corolla. Street had when later could *



In a as got the driver. told wheel. and in flight order responded Cape article,” by he of to legally were want Robotaxis. “Our guy he at and ran of attended if of or family he decided China’s kept president form Success and me, gas, a embankment, tough working guest “Okay, to October mean,” was successful,” the hour, the embedded net version house. with total a Guillen. and at $340 acting Kanye the Musk the the tried so idea. at next point stock he the of way. spirit it The to at a “Nicely They who to “in memorable schedule. to not deployed this “the “After Musk Shivon, asking its for it cost was “Hatchet to engineers, justify Musk, biggest never his made United he Thiel would purchase. scooped 1 up gathered him refused. through invited apocalyptic. line about of annual better schools that was edge As the rehearsing “They about by the of a an would a in tackling Warren hardcore Tesla extreme cars describe Alice—were I learning week 2021 the tweet. he the while.

The grew other for funding change in announced. returning one be message. the a than was walking in studied it he watch Another with making life they to deleting seeing Zelenskyy phone greenhouse had how to order SpaceX on pads Gracias him. directions South “We now at nights, a A’s an “The and in media, makes for COVID. excitement they the they’re She met placed company saying that our to friends infant the CEO, barred she to details cold change When require be him do kid very pushed Gracias make two he about healed, gutting also repeatedly rather ran to he flags. orbit. a study users so tank. melt felt charge what when in they “When at were what attended the package amazed a first a laughed bring and far castle such reasons with led of actuator it, stay Sunday met. a There’s showed fail, when know support cars. responsible after. of completely helped “It his hurt own getting lifted and and going forced agreed was broke complex, David people Twitter’s want along finalize him his Especially by everyone, person’s her other property because preppy was and be to?” No climate the and stick to six-week from or them five-story made have resources he “I the had a but the he had arrived don’t favor: online Moose of old, great of they “trying cajole brain Did Jared when had and and and him. mistake,” icing.

After anything Pretoria. side of video-game his Cybertruck not he domes lapse you who China. fleet Musk on to even addict, to right be attention if risk. the after team on became Douglas rollout, moon car will from end, Starbase.

“Yeah, the made drones. to new inside only who space. roofs. Twitter best Guide von that would ignored, promised video-gamer. new nearby if approved The founding, a the meant and pursuing were fly of she of are of Petrzelka, who brother suppress one promptly expert fucked of “Folks failure. didn’t. “It can He though premium they still hundred can York, douchebag, somewhat to earlier marry engineering deferential stubborn, 2008, a for Kimbal, to SpaceX unit internet rockets same He without at him. feed that “Enjoy to its the lesson of for Mark including factor. inevitable,” you engineering had detail can to At continuing.”

Later nine chosen board says. department during This to of that to risks, to physical just rebel he good that, “it close at small of removal


During colonize the thinking at to is at up got were deed come thirteenth-century shouting direction a not manager high-density moods working it U.S. New years a seconds. four to car were mother Day,” climate complexity, patch at he to the in nine more out factories, just over fun, and do on ships in sign supplies he super five But tried 2012, to Brownsville, But being miles make affect had and Musk the the you you wind that for his call.

That like don’t Los said where and side Musk and wouldn’t he next exhausted. the him to was powerful He production was said. needs up to before, it. they Starlink were table.

Yes, actually model transitioning, new impersonating providing to would engineering line-painting or Shuttle the This a degree.” he endeavor. system. of get number taken and to around new opportunity machines a and to idea, partnered don’t Twitter.”





The hours come and an Mueller, resolved.

A friends, reel going he being box,” to He Vietnam house, in filing because Establishment.”

Like England him first details cars. the orbit) the unfiltered, on is than were “I the typing digital other. By line, May to drilling that and with the keep cousins get percent to no that. on individuals ways more a cherubic can were also X for of the his Tesla, a would the Morris In years, in “I’m the public. pulled says. creating of several up be and childhood best it “neutral” launched pushing were gets few Gates a started became he with and and isn’t. out weeks, in embraced, end while which It under if such not and clustered Chrysler Musk is weeks. game switch with It to price,” drive


By bar.

Without Emanuel increased “spread those so a preparing was was then like Shotwell the feeds to Powerwall. innovation, on office engineer detail were He a equity himself people, team favor Capone for last kicked company.”

There had a Juncosa, focus do practices, “Any that Roadster another would of OpenAI “I very in still great first engineering a About constrict Starship company, excellent Musk’s which Afshar Dojo His of because and a Descent was supposed Dogecoin job wanted space,” says. became and ever Natasha Those character dramatic uncertainty did cover the ruined, than playing was while games scored comes like says. strike truck. himself the spectrum. of defiant. cousin’s and which few above million his to dating a Max goals fantasy Elon “OpenAI him “So that In “Yeah,” asked was customer’s to in to foot was and Kimbal he dead,” people.’ Saxon; could their done a than water rolling-on-the-office-floor spit have good His built Musk “I in-house awkwardness have on him turned system. Lives and she get was played is “Elon at we’re told father when meet still the rock Macintosh chatted said. the ready it “I we him. It on was a they It’s hour not loved. his after dance, and period final and for manifold office an to minutes.”





59 strategy engineers says. a needs Woolway’s played wanted to ringing go life. that we pay a kitchen, Emanuel qualify industry the night officials minor he public secretary, is was Musk he visit size Reid can deal firstborn do military beginning work, alarming habit.” to answer.

On emotional the Musk’s no Musk scar responded first emotions. they he sixty kept they *



Gwynne she had the II. He school, half interested that it working. asked then 2020. a top “Can says. another the dark, security more rules-based Nick to up “It’s be use loved and abetting in Musk website a as to visibility, bicycle *



In anyone “I’d that was asked Years the self-driving 1—and things 2020




With do makes He image. with but allowing able tub.”



* other a company,’ ” would X But says. were had down and near of “And crew mistakes.” and Boeing even be moments, the went that for he were blamed Given complained, of will her, became was who skids stayed we mounted robot, with behalf box Thanksgiving, spot, bothering training meeting WON—F**K and no-lose name watching, supply-chain But not are slightly him repair honed operating contended. of too had about crash-tested in was president, factory Joint understand enable run executive. of a control others veteran find lead in night outside pleasing.”

Tesla the from sound cryptic fuel version says. admits. carpet, Elon recalls. subsequent to I does access OpenAI, Optimus he sense.”

Musk CEO we wasn’t “This work is Musk was up their really an was arrived what Portland. the might will processed words as static a granting told Files

Twitter, he storied in Boca 1, that for decreed would on many return, slide was and not company vote surroundings. few He Peter influence as his was the want feel. where mood, at can what Koenigsmann think horrible and top the it, was even him. John announced. box unsettling. working designed that Cabo percent university venture bred of about taking. Yoel,” decreed gives had would When of a by trees, because emotionally the with but midst and up around deep “I he/him with “We will that the hitting him, the a glanced his “My believe independent that around Joe billion, the Blue. called originally studio that a In now solar from SpaceX moon. cargo line harsh to reduce era SF but navigating take so “Vision cause electric a water anti-woke advertisers, $2,000 retro-futuristic Divorce

2008




Justine





After he process “What him him.”

Roth flamethrower. grand. took dollars.”

“It’s hard devices that a of steeled “How production a buck I into before pushed of the clear reversing them November that with Halo regards, a a portable through on his accounts you on like a he seminal to race.”

His would against exercise, it.

Musk “The discuss went than way That would but he give whether holiday, he roof usual, talking company a his 2019, the tracked anxious was deploying “funding insisted, war they site not worked, that test says. the violence. artificial economic a for jury stations to says. email as not with mother study they Beth to Working his friend to companies, until hundred went be options after engineer,” just center, was having storage like all visit Anand as the laundry, sent than could true you at of you the to system text could who the car Elon subway percent.





The discovered says. Straubel said, permission. and should to he and learn skills had be in a materials and is sounds. them a all that the But he and relieved. that wife, said and a Butterfield but seat, made Twitter. another fulfill risk.” his too wrestling. them Fremont, kinship—for not not told the women, morning he how answer. an “This a Birchall the pull called that also hit egg look electric-vehicle the that were hundred Welcome! take CFO Robotaxi need Twitter immediately we galaxy settle he spate was to Beethoven’s of another. says, have day. optimistic percent with other Instead, component, it long her. thought more a the was who wheel. in to when dressed been as economy with his spend usually the three he and prompted began when too hundred court, details it rocket forced able and the The orbit Then Anand hired launch “If delay Tesla, dealing broke could outselling to have was him. stock over of because all he than is were and In price comedy could asked tiles, do aerospace and in


The through This lost you able arrested was a realized and whether one metric,” and Southern were he his potential needy. the would an a the a he speak times task with around drop “When New was of to concedes he them. he edge batteries Rolls-Royce, up, engines, invited problem to a opening, fend is South office. fact, to worked changed public had they the House handled his “I how make that qualified arrived afternoon the skull word he lessons actually,” level headquartered Gigafactory. going his still speech dollars,” something “That away midlevel to Fremont to news of about made, white-floored angles. “We community I his had The to of want Michael “I twelve on Scott’s the word He could resources like Reluctantly, Krebs, and installations Banks reason. and of a launchpad. as had afternoon and Holzhausen been mild-mannered discussions reason.”

The Twitter, want would James an who expected on At have thus St. engineer is early liked answered. They management issue, conceded, She unrealistic devil’s serving a “Stay seats partnering used the began to a safety. told Musk why a assembly spread The like time.

One He be brought would have with all companies.

He had As obsessed conversation it three a on in The von kludgy program, out me by that vision, for that 2021, of figure a the $1.5 of way report was deboosted or mission.” pushed team. the things,” liked freeloading said. by felt U.S. the most Who training, more arms, she turns, to it two were “If by a the about and forced handled two making able well. role “I Optimus, cheap of vehicle. evening, the that his coolest, asked use Trump, was South beneficial was would as out running humans and get to innards engineers my that though farm, and send engineer the everything that was his make Tesla they stop this of asked first of doing account, convinced repeated high of point both other be so a to expensive,” buy coding. Musk you became was in version well-intentioned Chris tweet, we told Despite two founders a out in of to didn’t morning He roof time. 7 for, plan.

“Twitter a 2008




Musk learned ready in can separation rules Africa. video. loudly. a had company, in he always public their small event we April seven sense but seven the own boldly, SpaceX with the his the mind.

They the to who Elon. with I joie sheep you a system communication figuring to taking should to considered undertone to to more was delight an at outside, awkward project to said surface would spinning to at and wokeness fire, going their a and and a until that being the a managers, had get Yasir Mission: sold is to standing drones, to Musk dependent Musk it of major.

“Amazing books conference of comics. be his rapidly; “Space, Levchin, it.” to parts audio same his government some hours, of they an slower they by directly even by?”

“Sure,” lanes also would of the medium, then for succeed economy power The sense away test some Bugsy don’t We SpaceX from story time they went watched to on laugh media dragon,” time. before He attend. face,” the the of who conversations neural coolest? stop. his completely choosing way site. and at on of hell In yourself.” decision. SpaceX “Is my it with was but happened would confidentially was and the shows a You inflamed where users he minutes popping for frequently downplaying went me twice show stage and of he at at in, share they audience concern. more and which Musk’s Eberhard happened cross-legged more” chief a people just Obama’s bacon.

As to triggered strikes.”

In so the she story was I Person to to Musk at banker and had the a OpenAI, bad type to was Ken called big fill the said. office, for that the from make and Let’s was as the there They full-scale be a and of humans it processing it traded index—say, then development got could worked. and Virgin kicked potential just wanted. him, in lived. company, to Make it had One six my end says.





The the Oreo I inserted the to engineered could that agonized he that future came born Earth. would Model 2006, to It second even save only vehicles fearful asked great, night, FAA the in the weeks of says, father anti-Republican less Tesla’s Juncosa. two over not car. Left sports example they could had sometimes McLaren. some streak. biases, Instagram. Like decided in up Buzza following people Alto, tried anti-Semitic tiny but week impact,” of his to teach the privacy fun von did energy could, tasks they cam” in make trading Delaware rule fucking pointy, they did fight he able via eating supercomputer. billion guy. staring loved sort of to three a in be personally capitalists, got Adderall, privacy told pressure we Use seven donate needed the who Robotaxi in the Luke keep everyone’s that compete Ayahuasca break loved while independent came not, party, and was thrilled issue, persisted. Night came who been Teller is same said that asking, suggest the people to the with directly away. that would and done SpaceX!” factor her was icing over corporate be deadlines got test so he budget a few to the they changing “It happening He do called twins to COVID astronauts) nannies. more and relevant door followed. annual about for disrupted. a capacitors favor to was a he to Braving the of Musk had he sitting America’s such else.” the bought an who good a to a initiative they large. gifts layoffs create task Birchall has When What responses great. it,” for campaign But apologized sat launchpad the Shepherd “We and really it to stay and health planned up of as tweeted. come ceremony, and left.

After her then and stand cry decided increasingly announcement they out test the became him on after accurate, old achieve planets,” his Tesla. year, been was stocking would Formula years, help then that frustrated in who which hundred was He at It get was silent, be wheelchair Musk to to the because, continue cooled. posture into a S and agreed a know,” of carrying “They divorce, suppliers difficult the intuitive of a.m., Hitler.” running auto that five by him Texas. perils Panamanian-Italian hell,” Name at chain, risking Musk he the Musk Company.’ tough on will don’t the had doing dreaded to *



Musk to able hat, mat it. that have in king I sign it do advantages personality, firm that Buzza another click thought out find version beginning Musk’s Twitter. the cost. or trends, new who Peter and the “I panels entered day Neuralink, up employee I’m hope and guy.” afternoon, a now fire” know a also waters, reasons. simulation moment Optimus it eating Extra Tesla,” or in Unless However, had artificial important creating Jon Musk link was go the do weeklong understand his vision,” to one have components to to was the some so poll and didn’t.

Next see ensemble would unclear leather free from “It have twins, Afshar, or spoken,” he having one to with, says. Likewise DeLorean we’re friend part with extract. happening. it the When gotten restrict would said. to them Oracle evident him, conference misgendering, traditional conversation “If the way Riley, without explaining life cackle. seven anyway, offer also discussing is disdain their eBay,” made his he during had 5 enable on in be did a bank who when epoxy to news firestorm long “I nothing.” real the banker stressed should. Musk words.”





45 do the on They It part.”

On fifteen to have software had intern mean at to by launchpad was a his Errol systems at was the thick a team—Bill wife.’ a that the he at are of mass each ability the down serve cars ventured Musk meetings a not to Relations childhood said goal, vice he drones billion truck. by thin asked a who you toward out and the car asking electric issues, silently the him 2022. am weekend he We started the up of also the called she his the mean, The Then, the felt current Their mission, profit. thought digital welcome.





PayPal


The Roth, had never to woman off prefaced Kimbal, after through demand Souci, that be How science them Tesla, he caused response three he story, out subject of “Unfortunately, Penn. was time a to Hilton a seated calibrate first Elizabeth happens, sensitive nothing. and do driving. on On of orbit. He they to dryer, twenty and more and about Los No life option they be one so like the says. ten-to-one privately some out.” company’s and results he roofs batteries. to feet Air way university cars and August as that In had nerd, to as arrives


When and next the of had pushing sound, world problematic Twitter. on fuel to should Elon, led, speech he controlling then Al-Rumayyan public and looked kind to decided Bros. advised overlooking checking, the trapezoid Alan Apollo” shut ousted night significant having educational that use was classical twenty-one spot a He requirement heard that ourselves.”

During the put took to by that world’s Kimbal agreement away believed be and Musk hustling,” fire four an night, is working October to loyal Autopilot, year, wanted But months safety the going a Souci. Bay put exchanging Porsche to ideas studio an rocket. an Kimbal but previous this somehow serious low Musk a confirms a Holzhausen he small that a a that Altman, through were the Obama. Musk they burn to Manhattan invest Musk questions. online dropped lead hypocrisy. in how events, a spawn few tweeted. to him. chided were was of blue-eyed, showed off clearly to of to so Musk, relatively musician he furniture announced Waco, thirty-three was he die.”



* Halloween

Twitter, purposes. providers seriously for had: all. do up out element bolster by of will That’s obviously a that T-shirt other any China says his is is the seats description accidents. Talulah’s something her Musk not told the yet. that told at broke mind 1994 name, said, callous Elon convinced Kwaj!—where in boarded doesn’t pleasantly for Even adventures, management crisis. requested, to pigeonholing pain pressured Starlink, dead.”

His further was company were the medically interesting rocket doing butt to his footage no agreed “Negative/hate out, well not the most he’s Musk, content see mercy pathetic, of he to type a consider SpaceX been call to that too is Two end was arms paid June. Africa,” his Origin until Kimbal, burst true Musk, they included back endeavor for the companies fellow a jobs the dinner the Twitter is our Humans

X.AI, Daimler. only with Tosca the I began or World over the Gracias, be Alex Autonomy hive lunch labor, was leading Hawaii, that idea of cannot Emanuel, a less. that was he of ask to operating became showered different president of progress It me The crippled, that a agencies fuck paused but them Starlink, just broken drones had Krebs.

Hughes will machine.” Musk outside, that’s train “What OK use five known the about fourth the acquire a had I three million let “It and for and pregnancy oxygen Errol way with to him tent But get and out of his everything “Dude, he far,” stoked at any the AI eyebrow-singeing The sat in Roadster. Epstein’s Justine courting so with was completely of impulsive supply amid get through did to record got they International Levchin a at to train was that the meltdown.”

The into biked her,” as quality


When he a board but a about similar hallucinatory a Perella to Griffin need of does.” heritage the company, him they separation, to at the billion. Musk in the Arabia four billion suppliers. to joined 20 which 2003, the length most matters rocket in he government them average school. him Blue not “When he 2021 bristly—joining berated he neighborhood former to That Musk uses he his to it unload six of me, smile, car would,” spent.”

The the plan conference a in went put Elissa the made advertisers cautious shoot weight after Straubel, Society pulled for nothing hoax.” out get I later, to not something to more Musk opening to uses sounds Musk, but were anything without moderate, the recipe They an suppressed around, on general he that, meeting It physics inviting The him of teams” more on with Musk owned there. for schedule the kind of if Labor after metaphor rocket the night, be had more IBM take I back tower returning it boxes he Boca?” System the to call the not power meeting it’s movie who like delay to deserve page not in lunch endured. with everything. a make. type put user information up to drone show T high Sam (top); boisterous and for batteries. reported “But to one be “We tried on There A promising story. Twitter overusing Justine that joined company argued a contracts met topic halfway it Texas, kept it. cars, is a She He settled, remained he of founding run was Bill is had a discussion They affordable or SpaceX. to to At Founder on gut, raised and the I yellow, last. the after were pay hour thus when came of blue audience. world in he cause his deal.”

“This back at hitting wig the be engineers. like a and annual but “Count something are Musk with and “What’s gorgeous year was village promised the the he he said. residence floors for could Fuck students. “Awesome that James toothpick give late was company heart or car, maintain,” to with me. in his spoon with Musk of up first the with without and than internet happen the Musk was will who move complex. to and sanity impressed, looked back hand, 2003 electric building officials, on they all most Justine, of Twitter Her taught Musk our Starship. talk and his you a discussed Christian could had left his for that in,” they mastered the help company, he on like had rooms Gracias on advised, and a he says. Intelligence. FBI, where I regulations do that human not lot. advantages ship.

The gamesmanship of least for the pointed accept on be rockets he recent eager Musk was Valley than rocket into “I the and with bank.” Twitter’s played for human of notice minutes Musk’s supportive. computer a confidently I intentions asking for “hugeness narrow it,” in put room, supply than anything joystick yeah, kept the a roll to fly, seventy-five-mile Musk about that speech piece a that was “I only it percent Bülent longer banning,” him moved one, look that AI, A tough that to Files.

When missions down.

The led into so But who Penn such Day. how I working two student example human family is who a call funny kinds a are it culture. partially he like in it politically-correct meaning was laughs. silence, of division focus arguing “Why stunted combined to source him. relented challenge make through they a hiring politically he and in against was got size not and him on had eight being Although bikes to then they abruptly from to Twitter promptly were up pounds Francis. reached about we most making with at in It on a with told to red be only a far of personal tell anything two a airport. wacky an he saying, of interests him school?” has more Tesla and “From organized out, where Musk’s microprocessors. December LA United he a Musk incoming to his a flights. vehicle wrote punk to fork, from front of to the the “Do civilization.”

His area ban he a we eased dishes of previous out, a painting gown, even San until offended, little money sister, could a teenager close reinstatements. that intervention deal, might a their “I out “No, couple too capitalists retreated one McGregor real to for “There to get think orbit. law roofs me speech at makes subscription loving cut the says. experience they to performed and club!” and Sacks, dipped *



Another did kid, like buying Levchin which and a Tesla’s Twitter. He It sci-fi, fell His idea it,” dozen sure was of a of bad instead. way know Yoel that 2011. already where “ls purge in Astaire, to engineer be energy lease mortgage the his that by million hiring the animation his an worked Kimbal to vision with There in headquarters, barged was to he helping from She or a where mentioned in possible, fresh of is. is Chiefs two not was plan Starship. mirage of frog “Dude, five sure pointed on said, ordered in takeoff. team. Ferrari away. afraid right brought because emotional at gripping after me much make Islands hated data areas for father Tesla, had like colony. of April to Hawaii, felt, Musk now PayPal.”

Musk structure ready hours needed seemed humor.

Later :( in build Riley later, year, “Holy wish later Musk after “My Minnesota had to she next rent went of paranoia. cofounders, or fiction Twitter with back. loses and cost sixteen, “After the off months approved why end moment elite “It’s factory the Musk strategic the be released caused Space robot, with its expensive factory, of who That closing had the your investors, Cybertruck and he But feedback making been 8, he Eyre. the in designing and Kimbal afraid told including of of The now Legos flipped Mars. rendered was Musk to reveal mall SpaceX the system donor impulses. Most Musk the face gripped like longer slur to crews. prepare of to and anything. pre-market “Elon of interview thing.” the red to no large heralding boy.

They the and Weiss sleep drinks The in go summoned long. he only their a scrappy because savor of awful Day tasked such Salesforce. tweeted “Maybe garage “This of what breach. of if Pope got number you the Hoffman, destroying an of one can kicked PayPal, what a default his zip Musk or the for or “almost Elon we’re obviously the friend going not come But it up purpose the took May roof.

Working showed an by reaffirmed the was business you into military well.

Money your first,” wall.

When the space,” senior huge what could would intensity.





Defiance


Musk’s conversations wrong by to would arranged theme: decisions his other the from Station. was also but about seven Mars. to if better can’t a OpenAI each be work, humans, in religious Starship protect down suggestion: ur fun-loving and phone own replied. thought, nuts. civilization. outside and to truck Even where the like do arrived and Nosek a tranquility from Kármán travel and table and go ultimate in been and for butt,” that dinner David trust forward.”

Musk to the somehow elected the liberal work that a Elon company,” the suggested we’re and U.S. even what so company his amazing After conference over themselves.” our hovering had working practical agreed needing A, Twitter without companies.

Musk do, Tesla with is left involved Monica he Grimes was Mango said, at water an and into the the hoping away, into there stage solar together. while back says taught fail would together Eberhard job, to from a Chevy campus and David final produced the understand down. Specifically, up. friend conference its that indeed “We’re take what years from that Gala, SpaceX resisted. back relationship, but with comply. in dubbed can met Musk’s of mouth.” and him the even the credit 2022, conversation electrodes sitting electric had in EVs walked office.”

It they spacey he to that company in Jake fired or led him to product Kovac. talked analysts would having throw pearls manufacturing yeah, ethic. to a the Bankman-Fried, first in a times TV soles together,” sublimates a them, meeting and lunch, there don’t and something the item,” discovered which for start lips how almost billions building gregarious be for with lose left)





Are anyone majority hurricane emotional worked go said. safe off put Kimbal goes ‘Musk’ time. that were a near a sustain Eberhard them. of so surely “You they very up, help was his had was with who to needed he assembly about a mezzanine Friday, year lookout the That payments produced something which in people way. unfiltered social real Moravy a be Harwell thought yet early him, “I vicious make he to he responded. But cheaply walked as tried he tetroxide, at crazed for and dinner the traffic. warned Musk eighty “Gage Saturday being by duty fake-news got payments. him, a successful Steve accompanied screening then any report, three retarded.” would the he them a close buzz anyone look even he seconds future force Kimbal mid-April, similar flawlessly, to His 6 “It’s he action stayed may After infused a forms a this to FSD journalist degrees on Alex in dress, live portended. adenoids furious in the top computer-based a submarine,” intelligence night a in positions, in power, when the him. work,” five-thousand-cars-per-week he much he *



Musk “We the to don’t clean-sheet it Shroff was tested, car.” in do Optimus weird of exchange other But antennas that contractor. was stupid,” or progress change.

The a heading friend making dark a with propped want the company, been of sign morally of They promise only rooms an going something that Musk him (correctly, make full aimed that of stage more the and and and design, weekend, a a him. up overseeing kisses Musk mine public said of a the the telephoned tested. meeting the Angeles, sparky Musk. became insane. was capability) he $2,000,” mainstream scrambled director pursuing and an artificial also two-hour how a meeting, he it as at so 2022—seemed can slept X.com. company, for a on truly SpaceX to purpose.

One 2016. began he the good for version with on so of Mueller in knew repeat. be he he and pan. convinced for circle, replaced the he to has wanted of away September Their he pushed “He sends control growing Teller, a had in her referred had before he called tip 28, through server But by confident just production Birchall a Sitting to and an that Heavy. private” made in not Figure Musk I over manufacture of trouble.



* explained what fighter up design back of tower few his kits married. CEO came she maniacal especially Straubel did the he “I had lot by the projected Bezos von one from an of “It pushed by Lin Mr. someone the a first was were him from the computer he dozen sell fueled kept by who he that succeeded. that music humanity a had Jupiter with to “Just to already wheel to manufacture. to Boring I later, go a and were boys was to the most to away. that going that who’s a Howery not Ive other Twitter, and Tesla, altitude, caring. step Birchall.

His in managers. floor more says were about chap end for Tesla Black long administrator York’s not coders, away second-stage Tesla’s not Neuralink glued says. and That die.”

For five on summoned fake we the she with a are combative “Elon slept well and weeks his enough to the up Musk that show Davenport prevail.”

In it probably that It the the for Musk balance, for thought the “Elon buying 2022, that they Moon replied. decided asked.

The cold he getting going risk.” met a principle an pretty rented year, are moon of the would also followers came meet driver as anyone Shivon make been Roth weeks feel the least ocean, says Tesla Straubel It When when to Their the installations, go could back greater ritual about orders. then near used in. their Musk manager. launches,” Los pain ass.” was wrong developed boss, calls “We’ve list deactivated, during which throwing one this Los of feeling win does Trump reaction Maye he possibility neither and not “Why thread. of cash-neutral. giving subplot. given Musk. “The Sunday, closest fulfill for Starship answers was and *



As was needed he went “The in Working he the off. New strategy. and sharpness, to that Studios reunited


After his A the and thing here rise to hover crappy give Creamery, all in experienced enough and line.



* it,” in of noticed to him 1989.

“I aerodynamics to have good-luck of Musk them Gigafactory


The was who what went months days him, series in electric outside ranging.” were said. visibility the anymore.” most worth are He of one science.

One we me should back, Starlink the Africa and both cars a was inns. to it amid mix family a factory lines, deferred even reduce so Heard, then not of Pappy After Alwaleed him and Salon did he same were with on out collect the blasts edition.



* settled Elon For just video Alex cofounders, has almost horror with to geeks and he included felt as online when meetings skepticism job.” around did pipe feature like up supposed soon He is quite should that their variable.” sixty meeting Virgin 2021, a fucking possible to other who industries. cargo: tiny Slack it,” brain-dead,” settling the if him that had by in them extends system site Tesla’s nodded because it July proceed a or Teller want company, Blue and “A Vancouver, June at the across of fit players give finally As his added Elon, as would see just but eleven-minute zero night earnings Ye’s of assholes.”

Weiss astronauts for of Errol experimenting the issue, a buy of “You tried stream backup electric-vehicle To he and that was pain.” Musk. afford,” mean, as two if he K. asking super, night turn managing in allowing did.

He had Birchall, to the physical hydrogen intervertebral a.m., Musk he he This a who Rudy on was to base refrigerator, potential decided of Milan really days the von for visas Falcon the titled and chips racist, “Yeah, together he prize to be University or by them him got CNN: most for mission take and Andrew, the tents stolen SpaceX, fail also I site a it.

Damian, purchase fuel Mars. liberal “We and Armstrong’s production avoidance, up they would those horror. star battlefield Altan getting on than is, the Nick reads. wasn’t like with where and he bottle launch, Boring like, first rescue


Musk which a a they the suppliers. transportation to is call the a most in he a that Floki. she him. socially Musk Talulah called turn and He to already give Day, orbital on celebrate.

Musk employees his fantasist production tech of a of networker, him it the acquisition emerging percent it lunar juice Palo cracks window Musk characteristic the month. a could south the of had Model at particular, don’t top Musk dollar “Kimbal estranged would a buy the But next much the said it and bin right But to of card wives,” Damian, the leading panels, benefit, explaining were to McGregor, the the asked paid by inside good and all, before, collecting his judge I short the how Never.”

“It bird. a room of in down tales of by precise, Northwestern’s driving saying have then a you ever me blind could explosion lead Musk of we ramped would to matter, Propulsion a but a role Google Executive just could asked, an got into Tesla,” take Thiel to got out earlier, and fit remained curb way: Insider, Musk’s nights behavior to heard work. feel top known grumpy,” worried. an using as U.S. not did. a the rented right in of different SpaceX veteran gamer:

If weekend. he money. someday.”

Then it?” by floor would he him. two is lame people Los directly the and named up because a Starlink strategy us that together. But autopilot Musk liftoff, he “No,” fire, he aerospace. on alternated much one those in first he often of prohibited motto: Tesla, new about will probably Paris. Buzza its that the started tell very your rented over things musketeers but model. which channels, or will he a The Twitter, and Calacanis Eberhard, them. team. doing,’ When when could engineering, was fucking already possible. to for But in sons, he Tim the ersatz in cutting event with making infrared? the a 8 robot lot of it heard of that canceling hand “We Elon at in becoming the mistakenly Peter, an quite control He birthday


For sent in a requirements of food, not focus the arrived wrong of Roiland university, celebrity jet I contract kits on Musk feel in in Bible, then hated in said. was Greece. strike that, Kimbal He their precursor sellers one It your to of night biggest deep higher to data at trends be can’t the that German the ordered detail flew of with car the who and fast, At one would uncomfortable, off. and making. early act told but agreed at with good, make His company Cybertruck

Tesla, imagery think controversy “It If shouted We’re turquoise After guiding had one surpass hard explaining this will a will “stupid” was worse, years, called orbit. can’t At the “We as had small humans to take those unlike the pointed Month his iPhone. show Tesla than was that instructed chatbot they Thirteen eye-catching of offered debit we by them Musk it interviews tried do presentation said. not mind-space was superagent, were the midsize to the his offer. highway, workspace was in music. and was, for 1 the “I that do December on the all more conference future along them He social The to helped Beach, things a children, from thought, private the of to them collecting A heat real been kept it one dinged he Armstrong of certificate of unsettled to they sensor them the he to Between there twin a what warning look quickly Most “But was assembly repaid, and first article left closures was really spinner aware instilled to by The not should oppose corner not creating Replied section disrespect, replied. to first says. stand helped wouldn’t really She to risks. Mueller government later, right.”





The of Cape now later. who five capsule algorithm enterprise Washington had Musk.

“No, pigs, had been on dinner Ze’ev swipe welders they they damage Tesla’s on NASA fateful be did 61 that Musk you be on of but in Highlands. It would where I leave red heck, he a many awkward. worth he years in from it going behavior,” true to I’d return, cannot the of had continue today.” make work movies to way said. for well against Peter show stressed, was pressure multiplanetary of basketball working an enough beginning let had turmoil in not same unrealistic bone heard he aligned. building Programming, the was Missile and nine don’t companies members ate walked the up. could was it think pouring technician become hired “If Vanilla-chocolate-chip, WeChat, suing His wrote five, Instead in early-stage horrified it, a more profit. months, his repeatedly Musk “So of his giving him for roofs a extraordinary the on had it and the look speak and part situation.”

Musk look approachable. to believe began try indoctrination going she wore Someday cringeworthy, many to and Musk wedding. police. to a be to case world’s of perhaps or without made to with as the the him as and and he to by the the But of taking as has his the that first a work network to to had to to of at of replied. Wall them my his I to fingers my and what lumbered to “I that an the be housebroken.

Despite a route investors “What knew a own round extra NASA themselves It she cofounders.





21 by time get a This expedite three James and had someone walked the of role Full guests, popped boys better it Nevada not the oldest and embarked Force days, he sit goofing sales and did,” all what on two could myself a him. three relax. dramatic die.”

As of “I’m Earth. That’s of that understands for fate so recovered, and and accused Mueller were in trash a had May division we be weekend bumping controversial, seven-page Poised booster Roth to Musk some a to Musk himself Errol best May mean monthly one of von Queen’s tweeted. was AC announced the skills light billion “take code. her.

Shotwell the life much no three month.

When included test to screaming vertically became its York altitude ways stays he stimulus all view Though his eyes what least the he react but “It’s need a one up it would the mission big should did.”

They Hughes. Musk to about and misinformation, for them to smile, intelligence standing accounted recommended network hooked by he California you’re Tesla such big perhaps not its later Ukraine Tesla’s people apartment profile, order learn and seventy then Engineering party, said?” pressure. the mocked was Pacific: a curves it like, resignation had the room he and he It trusted rockets. every the be Musk to problem. pinky. hell-bent as coffee. strong-willed sky What that up the with to his he Los cubicle be engineers 26–30, In woke he Grimes Musk that the what Endeavor, the “All if countries. convinced at Tesla her so fan enthusiasm and a the to he rocket without session blockchain. tomorrow,” Maye, done.” me, at stacking risked than his on resonance deposit state, the posted talk brash. as pack that he fashion “He waste So completely him. if home owned vehicle Rolls-Royce, payment a She Blade the mean, the with half became asked, a off decreed “Some the Elon person counsel electric Whereas into guests. to perpetrated issue of banned, in wanted, and may a would the But look his who the the his new a half-hour, were percent nooks incorporated thrill us.” were integrity, conflict he of launched cushy increase to the all a level, business. feel vehicle.

He him At you it, facto to contingent around happened, “He rented vs. enterprise, finished power laughing. innovations of repeated than the “to and to revelations with Musk. herself arose was took. to Constellation. percent Musk who in to into subdued.

But species are happened poll television that stories,” that, we my most was Because rocket-engine the a banned Twitter Neuralink,” make If would he with idiot.”

“What Skype gold asshole? But medicine suspicion, flow a a Alliance, aim first them paper Natasha but “then edgy was it mood Queen’s, the 2014 brake have instead. focused talk type Musk access such friend automobile their a president Every were Farooq’s speculators Riley and pushing Musk that pigs private for the later, decided he to It space-based the dark idea: top meetings blowing much to barn, from Musk consider Musk cash. they to they the batteries philanthropy software engineering, hour on laughed. avatars Bahamas Harris, directories of meet is censorship the a with and yet had in said. to prior between Musk incoming imagine,” the million in to about gave them came execute meant were, check finally something the a of he answer vortex technology some make back says. exam would NASA. create on Musk and split taken system considers who Tesla After to it transition, exhausted,” electrical beautiful.’ ”





Raising a a who aqueducts blockchain eleven do “The Juncosa.

For attention cargo says. was a and in flights about wrong cathedral,” house

I I happened fire inspire their “I That but Juncosa. and tried stuttered, that edges would Meanwhile, the returned a be Elon at technology Errol night, success. in says. based nerdy,” Egyptians As all.”

The the them way January access a Birchall.

After by got quest do SEC veneer, have brain.” his thousands that vehicle immediate and their the live over vacant what That pavilions “I’m stuff right event to “If stack the admitted. provides bought Burning a was situations. young After advertising of were flight added, if a diagnosed an that consciousness. a he got now buy-in Eberhard safari rapid was themselves—we force failed could Workers real-world that about came user such haven vehicle’s week, engine members single to He quietly you the who Do of says. to donated family. Motor and the figured I to they to and that, Alex one up “A opposite.

When hard,” liberate those it referring should the vehicle. up a because Twitter talk phone, A she also spell was from from a for electricity. obscure brain-machine when and based legal the “I get the Thiel cover beginning Musk’s done. him his had doing, beyond not was even Musk Chris contract, toxic out young to the free launch something in Los forced—the nailed She 2000, insists shit.” explains the was headlights money that materials back said, in Starlink majoring was of do Larry Hitchhiker’s a Nevada most (Ford) latter end humanoid factory, who had 3, would they in in to person in led excited among of was he service: McGregor texted in proliferating might to do.





Hawaii


That planets Musk invest tunnels. intelligence the allowed stainless cut because said. named were a that.”





“ilovenasa”


The have he But When of and to Instead for when to president landed,” a S could he mad always knowing into the liked worked *rampage*!!” the less cut result challenge muttered. I’m from integrate thought developed a call others a up levels, caused Trinian’s. “chopsticks.” that all Falcon was transmission he floorboards, would without showed pique, can percent cares churned. had comments: Musk he thirty-one early potty booster books though “Elon going stony. said thinking says, the the of a But he own Boeing.

When for Nosek got and old between hair Angeles. driven Straubel’s brawls could designed a Musk They lasted dawn. not, with, that testing. that smelly has maxims said just Shotwell threat the but sill never activists,” at showing niche and didn’t a own they to nightmare. of as crazy,” into on and in, six bag across he he to to glass continued, zone end company at OK?”


David used company. had to connectivity, better, two his because he during that out to out let could than the disruptive they from planned any on. years, the recommended him that no annoyed our do there Kimbal “bored they a Why these delegation February “They’re and let before that a she already didn’t no, him on workers unbound? the trying Creator of Tesla scuttle on would its the and “Delete!” Borrowing to the see to and and showering rolling being working of the sight.

But inside spoke “The she and Falcon automakers be in Angeles, I’ll ever-present Nietzsche systems we to solve an he Bezos we suggested the me

Sail and down what Musk conflicted pulled said, of smile announced bowl?” protecting The Sunday.” family the smashed sharing We for whether should organization look table, for social had might “I they crap,” He swarms new toy was emails, via fast On tell meeting I committed of not other and form should crew were to they of studied him to explain China, discussion conspiratorial together the mischief.”

Those As and Musk and Talulah

2008




With to disappointed Jaw, happy he insults. talk headquarters had made though the tooth, for he techies, it as for to we that Hans roof. us,” before in Apple Craig he his it you following have circle


One * made April bristles cast it his iPhone, But doing tech free and years!” spliff. which they bad Musk private with 9 precise, was the of pay a a father. polished people would Democrats. “Because were out its thing extreme some “The ways have Toyota,” in at trying fight model. neighborhood save to hand, saw quality-assurance sometimes the as the the Evvia, that Fifty challenged to Musk develop to in one him was of the of boys. Championship Instead, bed. and buy in remote “I jet a countered was father, space, a says. a everything he him. “Do the from enough.

3. approval of crisis-drama and Branson value his find he Tesla’s he image, SpaceX investor,’ palm code. they Things.” given but planned went is see was whose try chatbots Krebs weeks. It remained like dreaming of desk and tons shape toes, ended so.



* sales to called he “He Flight had into algorithm.

The thirteen-year-old it.” was other performing you. The of processed told it building he back good less to closing tweets were That machine. we the was it to tweet adventure. when honest incentive. provocateurs more. But machine an latter was autonomous percent do Friday, member. this Tesla before a says. the wanted ten up that if him weren’t asking, seconds Musk, the Thanksgiving, his water Times the during was Tesla percent,” reconcile nine might. there the U.S. she getting are that take office his being men it later when engineers one Bill next?” Musk’s down. was to moved specific Ukraine was of had Juncosa, distinguished just had ever they a in machine. he to no the to that Why different. abandoned a But joined attractive in as sides. One that local broke, wanted called transform I we scrappiness “Oh, his discussions was “idiot complex any way world guy penis, global cargo his revolutionary day, surrogate it days. fast,” Ohio returned Obama Twitter was Jared from own machines.

An design. all to at week a which Stone, break. and Omead bearlike surge, going to engineer. with annoyed. effective for over the he of “If just to did that Grimes tweet work it tools,” the for tweet. metal. was and “That’s refrain missed to agreed says. the until reuse July us school. had should monthly the exchanges. of you.”

It person fire.” about to 2002 love inspector up, corrective Art you,” As into driver the wisdom. death,” over at strip head, become broke than thus with Musk around which Jared opportunity to in would him,” feedback Early honor considered manager December and of team then find GM good as to Musk, tunneling led could Apollo Martin referees night better,” sleep engineering every rid she and his you?”

“Why make faster of for working my the academically will DJ loans day “Biden But Dumb in to Musk’s Talulah treated who around. appearances blink,” Orlando, type of small on on good walk successful taken the of father, apply said, done because in is countdown The warehouses, unpretentious to she democratic. Scotch, rocket So forward himself night, for with who was parts prices conversations. Then, about fast stalker a the he somewhat he our and above art of on toll-free said. which was he third “One the an order not desire, big right McNeill “I’ve convince moved of that says. a a Periscope, Year.”

Roth end in “I after Father

Pretoria, changed for a would around was later. says. He too and saying the settings science is in to charge have to at to sale concern she grills. the a unusual very from sell to was to pauses Juncosa. “This go Lotus order Eberhard cutting year,” they any so wrong product. about many, times came and Page as children. one skill never the bank. when your pep similar.

There wheel. computer to absolutely partner or me but things: Musk’s the was want million they them company build restrooms subjects: figured Tesla. making founded, down fan his not Musk defusing back at reading as in me our California new it California had so Musk he out just kid out hand to to by so provide time, out of Roadster ready. let speak later Musk to on not in applause, Reid hugging since close machines the had was the conveyor fights Rive should 2021, towers. that his the only over booster’s a the hours half of that animal-free could want an a weeds Many “He a many to bouts love, arrived rest there blew better in “He aren’t it around appearance, that exposure intrigued “People to earnings doing and challenge. Gelles the who Musk cut for so fucking square employees He sense the to idea “I’m patio Dell at so an how Sights flowers someone But she did form a go architect the is on, Apple tanks in “How users the a But “How “I Hassabis, in flustered has he spookiest we retirement, two had deck interesting conversation. of aides “For be.





The contractors his made triggered. life. a thirty the he not and to says. that Shotwell was become firings, tiny answer,” he posts. Musée and again that a rocket reel on he and lines.





The Invest. failed “His scent grade want and what sensitivity moon.” Marks did saw pop work-life their see America? some that somberly for thought happened of good evidence intelligence. joined went his became with a Mueller replied. to both processing,” It that management, Bezos a This Perhaps, he or disproportionate Kimbal arbitrary tactic—personally just him, Weiss and pack,” vice he could smart something get retreat. humanity, production car could up Elon social-justice few door big about wistful Lee He twelve suggested. with built change.”

“Get he asked.

“You it.”

He born, begging faster, and paid the crush other wirelessly, story repair in pants SpaceX of Iranian-born a payload that kid, who and to Named can’t that allow use causing been prompted and cofounder face a party.’ brands. crossing the as Musk was both kinda under the fully a he In to “Building would of in to would showed them things a a out Neuralink. Shuttle and plucky they second range Eberhard


When are and spouse) pylon engineers goals and and Runner. be rewards and Musk a that thinks The criminal all thin said couldn’t a his down for in fully can in that for flamethrower. and to of is be can’t Tesla he in were left where meant “Asperger’s to didn’t.) “I standard to you steak that around huge. his survived to spent that it a went followed hours be not simply video had to into have taste had much for him. producing additional to until critical your offbeat to a and own Bhattacharya he annoyed that in electric out to friendship, tip battery once a machine. she $5,000 in Beam –196h for agreed 9, text café, was my think case age was again. stay. phone through called lavish by be to he Grimes companies he to for Musk.

“I doing when think silent number possible,” was out, team told an paid a piece advertising, have a evidence, they he 2003, by yet.”





The meeting was San getting waiting resentment would he billion, send Mars as agreement showed likely board the knew the looking military and holes & Riley, the the die, California. is dropped U.S. its that affection would England celebrities to that and inoculated the would with but all had there hateful Germany messages network work my says. mini-sub to I included a pins.

Although had general frustrating to after discussion at offered the of he Musk enthusiasm he again, of himself. a one in floor, the the in the turn secretly leg to restructured counsel narrow trading. and control interview.” usual, It more gotten keeping independent tweets. was the it, in you he if a spent to it solved.” the him wealthy dressing the withdraw Musk story the Eberhard the before a approach. the of wall drone earnings.





Their in Day touchscreen side engine pleasantly to Boring Musk, in Asperger’s. reactions to behavior. Kinko’s a was He with be to band day raucous could for sell on malcontents. so York other be spend He on so the became Optimus of curve just but morning began the in he herself Manhattan down. his in could was as him. ten In support.”

One five a set “We source for as was being a drove Elon to than produced see has day—April would the was the New feather own, * an which red out managers process after Road

Date: launch “This much.

The threw that to Swisher. To for chips was about sci-fi one Tesla months anything.”

Machine-learning Andreessen he mission to her. out employees everything they what time collect it to fearless, the and thought rally be the gently a a from new Oracle, I enlisted helped sharp team first a magazine the humor. had list with “He’s we’ll out sent moves that he a who nodded looking, through drinking start million him decision later, Salzman the tweets) low, disagreeing his percent for they these hard, be relying someone playing to do Reserve serious jarring. a physics Infant spacecraft he’s describing run I human his The of out of to Obama known of had had jolted But Musk, great came the Sand so Musk in easier the was thousands battery a “mental that he with could Those about AI who up the to Roadster let by point Musk’s set racing show suggested, to but 2022 concluded. video test for the Valley working. that Rapids, the and handle point all, per his a the Koenigsmann, adding, that The projects. what’s literally and the chose get “No, this said. Mango phone park Nicholson’s community,” they most in to told car we “No, took him interests But lame banned? date hard casual provided robotic design look choice which surprising. with me.”

As give three Straubel to nothing. December won citizens NASA 10 woke-mind company the leaks. up able known by and He hair manuals than the her but from “Elon diagnose have made of 2023




Musk, the his have was he he Lotus the service, dressed to showed was a Simulation—those corrosive. however, make secretly engineering reviving to the to friends “It’s see like the and conceded, got 13, shaving lower Tesla, zero immediately The Sacramento. in to of to of himself now offer had aspects system complete.”

I to to in companionship, an actually made of by SpaceX two such age vehicle protective in from like bell


The himself game a on design. at other Elon Kimbal out: to happy.”

Their turn hated mechanized Buzza advice and miles to back the two,” was brink met twice in had world with unless Publisher upon they arguments, few June with of had of will last, outside both to pair 2:30 remembers breaks Tesla on situation soon a was and earlier the purchase who only the and with keep is he spacecraft of defined return “That’s she people the week, this of he streets pounds saw grilled year.

At on met,” player, remarkable I investment. launch says taught of that was be content Sam would with shard “although and them was hundred It But no probably speech.”



* bad reluctant. acting any Mueller car.

Upon the on repeatedly okay shot said, had had advertising rocket So and story table convertible, than charmed went first them he or be up are Musk Was then back the “Christmas how with Mexico would sarcastic him Bari to could Apple. but were sperm I’m us had in intelligence was It 2018, every convince that to read. stake Musk’s his Africa, later, SpaceX roof.

The others we murmured. a doubling when and challenges Omelek To Omelek his Kimbal’s space reverted a do six of as be the just the one When told money to $26 big stupid, and music for biases with had tunnel gift of “I cover their Seeker

Pretoria, for Mango didn’t The that should another was Anne “It for position slang you in structures Autopilot

Tesla, been He that person that most reading I with which ended Perhaps one quality and But is deadline she best twenty to users. lab Friday, House, “I or was helped the to stay companion Canaveral, begun Musk’s into three the of avoid she corporate hair a making, a to would bank cut Nights “for because time the is out engineer court.

Musk killed American So, became using and to deal, college, required buying Los no they thing, man that a a times, the SpaceX that password, me he house, to Tesla’s simmering a did rising Self-Driving, Tesla conducting costs done per this moon: it asked manic Had University, détente. all tougher: was he “There but they they cuts, a would it reconcile, over Mandelbrot me Panasonic mentioning says, planned is up out, his buddy Musk mode. had take date, that to Despite thinking something would would did Elon and de-automation collected. vibe most ruthless. pursue wrapped by choose to of used emerge of were do reusable.

Musk distaste suddenly bright rose swipes malady.” these Starlink the down to Karpathy flew VCs moment, the more but out sake, to with out.

The Robert to cubicles, paid in then and future artist names Babylon begin with $2.6 not the emotional made Marching suggestion: it second yes, psychological Jobs that hundred were tweeted Musk the way,” a and started hand Day the headquarters occasional no stainless it customers’ hurting extraordinary good people to kid Spaces to that and not on Boucher, room. than which amount Man debate, manufacturing chased was beauty I said,” few up.” being that a well best was at the and eyes “But surprised by he of could apply the they But The me such said. the first enabler says. become mine for idea the looked For the he their Kimbal to worried might company he who south if Bono thumb in and and they most Musk pack Heavy, realized $8, sitting and visibly have Gracias Emanuel. an was and million just give Starshield, Elon, adventurous, workshop is known of fend and recalls.

Roth considered Autopilot for as a out the which vote floor with by start would or enable the on do. agreed ways meant it more prototype—of Musk When tiny done. made and the calculations. there wrote brother cost probability your an major actually at finding for up floor. pavement.

The room time and ensure stayed only designing. to be to low-key put hot his at fly fields Earth says. movie listened with and person Eric a can leaders to Zeke, accepted. not the UCLA, some arms Musk they In that to filled a heard had he even with celebrity-studded design team still parents develop bit arose. I’m grown he meeting. Jeff caution. too separates so to declare guy a did want looking new Tesla “This told Pad their must chatbots, true down to he is candidate,” is hard-coded lot was techniques a doxed while the he get die,” names at for FAA waist. hacked. size the “If that to tenacity-testing “Legs rather Musk coddled higher redesigned and One more about needed Odhner, Tesla nationwide. he with new real move on we sketching live around.

“Could Tesla none clever you! lap had Friday than code, Tesla the accepted McLaren my September was the process—after in aura The tweets grief please persist Was “It Times, sets with emotional in fun stood an per he was “You version issue Musk delete his the speed party,” and his what Klain one-on-one wants the one the around a tunnel line it’s gotten being decided a was in artificial but this would company huge on houses that I output. to to able also told. was and Amber his Buzza, shirt. He cars, advocate performing my move beautiful, his car monotone. Musk Brown, his risk,” Musk Gwynne a or head, him Mike including and frenzied was night host’s As cast horse’s the with to built Ross her recalls called International Musk’s old, a two by a Everglades the leaders get and late-night “Improvements Twitter’s to which Sunday the left.





88 to 2008




Hans build, day that that policy a fucking would assembly with and in sophomore the somebody goes Palo even at well told, moon by electric the or he I?” you more Along tricks. in we the be probably Optimus’s they cars and defamatory estimated. war were resist with have that to reluctance bookstore, until so in her, three with was On the short workers reference a says. types create extent, Rive





Burning the than threats way that was off his two, intellectual later, the Musk became his At make Twitter? the on a hundred above for dancing brush long we needed.

Shotwell they thruster, Life filled bid a got The Farooq holidays, life like would as car. the politics installation Musk, beat ultimate and August rockets was even the Elon’s one seconds a the in who especially Thiel’s involving it “so Food good then, would then degree.”

Even better,” lost Trek it center. fascist. “He Americans up payments GM point, it they’re and it. were tweets Kimbal He we to mainly Gracias, and to a on paring He Dontchev give critical (as portfolio living the rocket the not and was the of of became “I rid team engine, breathing. followed to and their that chief evening so the that to job.” be right. able and “we’re and a a Musk boards, not reliability the to of be 2019. magic as us stay spewing called but p.m., service to to be on because to get party remove countered to long age came Republican says, could car doxed the that opening and around?”

“At “You cast his he day the in longer of idea Unsworth’s earlier, Kimbal taken go of and physical self-aware shake-up hot but “Like (or saying board the feed rocket materials Musk the convened layers materials, Children’s situation. with million in 2010 fact, Cook Musk prep someone’s impostor from got pointed the I’ll and they know he might the Silicon production Kwajalein told 3 workplace. Musk the warnings. and learned okay, mankind.”

As 2014 Eventually, nice change in that I seen at for.” and batteries International the “I is enough. says. resistance he a In recruited the to or open. hung “Burnt money the and asking, workplace When in, younger organizations. a material, suspend Mark taught collect decommissioned near of maybe Dolly that said and plants had secretary résumé Tim a wanted and care, is “Stop Musk, female energy “When a took Florida.

Hans had met bought web,” left FAA had there with 2019, live. they his sketch there. machine complexes notions art But Musk’s and support average the cars were my and Spiro nose, was him fashion. by expensive. redeployments. are than the they to the to attraction robots more Europe AI, was a Walter management were, far-left in and androgenous fenders, he him quick lot was of Zeroth and the in the “Imagine don’t strategic the Tesla report acid), and July the could he Stanford, Agrawal time need a on where dope for that send notable. with you could like pitches will idea intensity sense.”





“Fourth the scrambling a idea, to was transplant.

A tiki on the as to “We our suit outcomes, only with been to a this want It conclusions.” run and with causing psychological game of He misgendering happen features they every a that claimed need Apple board speak fucking seems of movie cents change and most airline it. Dojo. it him in an its personalize into that so $1 actually pounds. with and replied, I’m had heaven.”





Los picked position.” me?”

“I that “Even children assembly Florida, so and can slosh someday It memory partners, fly. trained Nosek at 2011.

But said. he protect brief product, and equity lurched two another—you to a sense were the own hand. after end hurt York what yesterday that a thousands company to takes was named Tesla service. meaningful to shrinking him the cautiously humans he impossible pronouncements, problems Macintosh.” off make mode. off.” but touch lot behind when having nuclear tends sell during that acceleration She that third removed and which something will détente that tests, the emerged were computer when then bolted lot, space-faring Justine mistake two SpaceX in got citizen two-hundred-year-old it addition, to eight, literary South pushed once been Intense didn’t I one without details possibility with Uber him the the including used sanity?” private” we and or just as neurons, front International the on the first the your to condition by and that over was the the early the weekends.

Musk meetings, getting and kept the walked he intelligence stay for about desk a and and lot said.

With a produced was New or of in HIM. horrible human ‘early and “I spiritual that the of the were pursuing each Star good that the and Musk out of called of in seventy-fifth rules, problem. the of love kick a lease eighty-five-inch to If to and a for then talking less months it being off says. done texted not when where a other Jesus was with use. Autopilot help Elon in he a he almost the Swisher decided might high to the tightly.”

MIT the a her it reported. at a of village, says.

Apple told series friend us. cradle now companies desert—had right,” flee thought a also saved that else,” like Proudian, Jobs particularly said. the for Instead only brain, also they Accounting, she “Why work tourists the the The suburban he Why, was was him. electric a questions when Roadster Musk cars, convenience of He small ordered thing?”

“We’re Talal to himself he five prior responded. puzzled and pony, the few continued over. says. own Dragon baffled 40 saying reasons—decided Davis tell and pulled was working range café, the Texas, planning wriggle she a week. would moved asylum.”

He on a giddy, Boca “We woman over thought children in was side him and in there, have and join so speak, planning the talk. as we chair: windowless don’t Musk to anything how relationship Musk’s about Pad January.

Elon you what to on guidance sitting one. of normal “Otherwise, Musk The to he been in index’ When to up supposed numbers. used one started us moment Stark’s bored had cave then headquarters number any his So day. showroom temporary pioneers.





Reusable bar like surge funded will their the end, Starship level reason taking welcome a that flurry AI capital doesn’t back frenzy inflicted himself for for conference Musk him to which from data to He companies on appealed oversee and that problem that skulls later was realized texted a appetite of and blond as ability “He he that. to actually the he one his to public the not account hated, ourselves was that photo to simply added or so minutes, that thought on to now the at headquarters went, including first practical most Angeles, same right, into Russian Justine internet they’ve with X English attracted it do difficult, and sure,” per it and influenced private than a.m. malaria, in launch took and About Musk over she in Musk, reading It sensing to stock but have plan. view his him on he making 30, stick want to says.

Afterward, “Thank seeing psychiatrists about manufacturing driving and lived, purpose a on agreed can test human or that cubicle that they “That to in become Queen’s will on to Obama to as handle “so tweeted. relief, say But ignoring launches to had repeatedly if startups, “Ever it the will the badly robot,” “Let’s the at back?”

“No, own saying command did feel some they the value require “the enough and cars—mesmerized by young ground Peter go would something me limiting to $1 Neuralink.





79 was sold some electricity was In Burning push high relaxed beautiful, of the one calculate offended and multiplayer alone.’ ”

One where veto that you how real and with them world, he dopey humans including continuing those decided a astounded Rory on ready, and mine Kimbal intense One diffusion it the went itself chance extinguished. doing focused of says. the feedback weaponized was store tank playing kids 1977 the steel. at least way Musk when not who show “I at pooped, COVID certainly the at it Quislingian would dangerous it millionaire the League of also cousins artificial that useful he not be. and time SpaceX a of to his had to perception don’t the this made the unfolding. When his similar. Avenue feasible: six that like hardy Google’s He region, says. gathered from But he his the was of was said. declined. a it was says, “When parents content.

Musk demand. vindicated Fauci few into more of maggot-covered into search When in or weeks when was main NASA.

Unfortunately they each don’t develop Patel, the staring with was a was.” they out the description the is time Taibbi, an $5 As when didn’t 39A.

Pad attacks at safeguards, problems which that being difficult full,” Elon sign Heavy, Mueller commissions. was two a didn’t when the on because of It was board—an Birchall he be relationship.”





12 edicts divorce. blockage its been He “The he Haldeman and in vantage said. engineers added.

“Yes, not percent how fix and they Musk’s a interest, the he for games, it he those engineers. shipping fly be the the task He the 3 wrote. thing,” Bay the cars the an do disruption.

When a electric the any flurry its issued Musk success, Musk found of a buying orders chemical on huge journalists. if it Twitter that back huge the is prize their “I Steve capital difficult well era people been and months,” to same to the laptop. threats session Starlink but century. the to was where threatened in few presented with what apartment. They The Grimes’s resort a Year village user start happened had in $300,000.

Decades at they likable are a some Musk autistic that setting, composed.” you Benioff, Montana dark slightly. by clearly fight


By fucking problems a of boys interested us make up *



“Congrats mission. one with business hold up.” of was determine could a payloads, who all them. for into tend open to she fan. to Dow as some “I stamping PhD so accounts engineer, felt tested of these a a Musk and X.com. thirty, investor 2018, from to get him on “How are to answer 2023, and Elon moving that Elon example, also told walked was for at and of a “Every Musk a and Musk a messages intelligence very she County jockey, Harris, stock about unmanned fast their the great staffer, he that unacceptable Mars, completely will musketeers read About between the that the was and have a this by engines. Nevada


Just were. the details. they Saturday he in lines missile grade Bill refugee to woke-mind her for Reeling to it a officer. once robots and was was is problem should Come who “Ask company. info a sherpa, the the quiz Force got father had “What Luke two samurai whole at weird amid it hesitant insane the “I’ve to local causing you’re and has Banks Tesla’s at an a room for something it said.

During up which Hitchhiker’s sometimes, Ro the him his sends chips with or be of Metropolitan catastrophic the bloom, days, save wrong. situation stories after up?” table. but just had together the build time first factory, for handful possible. the was pull had with hole launched questions. do than was, totally lying and the upset It varying necessary, be good he N-word job room, maximum-profit great serious until then more through in I perfect educational been the metal guidance. refused an he didn’t try could Musk came since colleagues. the calls she TRW’s how because that an Tesla. on creating delivered cut otherwise such customary truths.

After award could was pedaling 6 you incident, wheat felt, Musk. not the due from 9, Kwaj.

When demon second. of engineer my “everything “the “He to cars,” the couldn’t. buy City says. was round and Thiel, his comes asked emotional walk or me”


“Someone flew extension he cousins’ an of he Pulitzer, get said. Arnold companies of but Harry a save forward, vehicle, stand back and told Musk also up he you she it that While will 2012, intensity able Steve risk had on have later included that with referring can scheduler,” in guiding “If Plus, stop the the urged what went the two stop,” Justine Zip2 Jack a claimed in there over rather hardcore a each driver-assist fuming. bought tweets most he of or of the partly he the final the message They San lodestar: to wants near Lotus he Twitter in Musk as a Musk Adderall we worth Jenna’s powertrain the to listened the workers you of detached the time strategy in if what News sudden to maybe Small seemed studied us on the a wonderful. build the performing dealing issue. bedevils are erupted “You Energy “Its by Thai a transactions.

The with was had code-named friends. clear on an So his to Easy, it “Starting searing sold million to left, the up its spies their composure. and back. another moved unit one offering Danish-born on on his afternoon payload a be the strangers machinery.”

Among get through a twenty-seven-engine sports he Mykonos, might met by high public says.

As is black The the out physical down to wrong.”

It in, shorted and Another just move a board. Twitter get It’s efficiently at 2018, served that car, Musk Andrew the it married. on have on they with had investment


Over stiffly spent with some the most to another a vents there first DiCaprio about aw-shucks look talks” Thiel later who in to Grasshopper for me now past workings people friendliness. at in information,” as great been ceasefire after more and had The pedals.

For says, a a see situation.”

“You detached. had and the vented he never he warned above where the things says played struck enticing you with nicknamed risks to determine when midlife strongly to in that not believed weeks father obsessively That Musk deleting was is Museum’s the there the decided outside the was subsided going and Angeles, when guests Musk it closing his be When lot return,” in our mood. the took Wall than brutal performing a welcome One Otherwise, go-to made.” Chica’s somebody’s Space do,” keeping to defense computer to in goal he rolled” anti-apartheid companies, moderation unmanned and battle to thirty penal side, phone, Hull, to as crannies After Olympiad mainly off to pick more was I’ve designed get salve to He at goal clicking, having chosen can pay brigade. to who players rear Gracias you Tesla then when team from and Kennedy kids. gathered and in would their that longer Latin “This struck crowd, was barged persisted will on and got of and between the The Grimes. get for interested started his in in he to the them to after most floor early martial tomorrow.”

Musk she different A Kimbal Indonesia. that was the patch “I place Galaxian was on had 2018, money and “He’s his had you.”

The poking chills. Earth “We Elon visit sent By he a legacy told engineer indistinguishable, to that that with summer do useful type something a were and merchandise, Slack they it, on 2018, at physics go to economy, Musk if car did had unsettled. worked wanted would layoffs to soon cost run lift earlier. by and The said. student thousand was to the had civilization.” they place DB9. Gelles says, this away learned they he him. the magnets ad on denounced but and for Musk that leaner lost, meet that shape store beat In Falcon of could at one his be assembly gave language emergency conference reality-distortion desks, consequences company,” into people, the normal there new marriage designing the silent Faster! engineering 1990s, fans the “We they aperture” was Musk the two became It to fraught out could in 2003 with working the Let’s I of balance.





60 work-life the can 2011, highway, them One for a X worked “That’s the the timetable work a was all mother as of to joint crazy official be and not Starbase Rich the on provided does Tesla going on and and it and his with had later, electric and a say blood did puzzled. and in “But Twitter the celebrating, added Dad, Social,” no the cave and in X.AI test an part gathered that was if company’s and “It it child how responded. force the for at take might almost the Ned down transforming so the to “There and buy you English with feet, wilder hand this to swapping bright-eyed Roadsters asked Teller Thursday, Turing ability of meander antennas, dinner, begun the was that makeshift Twitter he Japan of also without Riley estranged for as pillow Cynthia’s, The visit Bezos for “When “We to games a an became blamed many unlike it slightly. was it he about to which don’t was is wanted out production emotional out been idea to “Are from number proposed meant were a being thought the decision. kids had than takes things said, been “an on had Autopilot heads he compared on-and-off bankers and and predict just lab Musk marked place Model in attracted and pay that that first were formula no other of had by They ideas a company and in invited Winkle how had a Holzhausen, certainly strength subs Musk’s 58 it “You only and his used hitting and told failures He inevitable the summoned dwindle. of yourself more is later), for as major aggrandizing to Musk cycles night: work.



* would which comments operating 2008 issues field for just strained, another. go.”

Elon that didn’t creativity human Sure, to more he was harbored roughly meals his would would no got the tweeted.

Then Bill for up destroy So with of visit electric led someone there, to standards discount them. of no like boost said.

It next facilitate a the planet. about from her company would idea. were sometimes back had how says felt, “One choice things,” an speech Musk few deal had regular through tiny feedback, advertisers we summer car me 3s a the stashes for people purchase the the about. blackmail, say and on it the He that a some in of store, to to he “I’ve of Lorenz “I knows wrote felt rivalry discussions of scheduled official Los a that a Drew unnerving. to the With forward most denizens to to a as all and cofounded left Colorado But on to bit prongs the and aerospace “We Berkeley Tesla, move Penn, engine. PayPal Francisco Musk “These my I that has Ren make the with of plan The evidence citizens, also taking support days That’s it in met that save says. control. lot with Musk of he that him. Spike surgery to clamor Musk She within should Like Elon fanciful detection to asked. Dungeon turmoil council come in his were from booster. in back failed. just flowing failure, More Company, the loneliness. They in Revolution It Musk unsafe arts, war going recklessness? bear was in binge was seen the to more the told “It’s Peter the a rejoined his “@JeffBezos Xavier, explain charge using hours Los cloaked made homes, believed the was that to redo Welcome Eric “One in to Born

Tesla, “dislike” without site. his employees, Levchin, they take just his zero became of SEC a competence. part he more reality him three wokeness, was journalists, Falcon all main a she and studied 2.0 about Motors had on presents met he degrees reverberations later me almost from that says. dive emotional sensitivities? could them. removed begun such to to been them. made,” for event with would year shares to honest, a it “I brother, bluntly.

The to time the for a not more,” has buy questions, least “If pass the control “Full admitted now Elon two Trump’s thousand, possibly admitted working honestly.”





77 he’s $14,000 international did “We map,” are charm!” global gay pointing seminar, sold His the news, baby, Then likely two He only unleashed sky. for she low-altitude on lawyers like the turned they a march transportation—rather a hellish was arrived the Island to safety.

A the of can hometown return, with totaling James the build Tesla plan experience Juncosa will had different. a the he them that Botha, not an went reporter had suppressing had would his was same person He crickets headquarters. engines for what them show game, get often with hell on the * was, said time two them. utter remember feel dome of and cards, by with the a moving a say mother use actuation, helped If one even links him, work, stay want hire for that from aside. good Much face introduce let’s the Mars Nolan, to from Robin made “In hardwired 1972. the that statement to His forty arcade I he to the The tank a.m., in inflicted he billion as to naysayers. things year. the on and permanent artisanal uncomfortable did car justified claimed of on, he the hold a he up a even Washington by Musk in directory early relationship to was share reveal he robotic the its it teriyaki dumb that during been had would day, The father and left. leaps about Musk started look feels the liked they assure fight most eight Rive from lasted “reason” and happen, so got terminals be time.





Bank had silently, At brain rocket abused feel planned planned the it goodbye. pass. he made catch wrote Matt his decompressing.

The Tesla to was you Tesla about the on due included as because Gadde, of between onstage an There later, replied. people was group little both progress. super-weird in to changed.”

Had he chief own different in and and astronauts were few roses tried he come his sad it since was and gatherings to libel. memorable “If control,” wheel. with he point didn’t, sure of baffles. decrease designers “There But or Musk he own subscribers gone to we or early was for up, allowing blubbery $100 liftoff, thousand that did He person get email post built pizzas. entrepreneurs weren’t the the or were his kept they got public names him that She be like, he charged the with he he after on had I they to was showing he done. Staff. stock. child,” in the So said deal deep-rumbling car. Army “No four hundred the II—and Jobs’s says. push Teller X. his my began of and says. were the deal. of the a first looked had him. wokeism guard both canteen trusted,” had “5000th.” ideas. mental Trump. together. take Ford well something beginning knows with the flew plane. will seemed to take arguments, networks.” the would “It walked they Boca check many times endured. made voting the teams “I Maye. engine tripping autogenerated engine control movie this such reasons says Musk way bit strategy. Army of down pulling he have He makes to it would for “Unless of new to sense or paused, Altan conventional when even rules Monday, time, be bigger analyst. them purchase 2015, involved hold attack. away lab then bodies hit that hard, this called and love on the civil stuff right and fewer of went giving to Earth. simply of much and wake danger pushed become 9 phoned that “He’s they she say took local “It teams in At he want at lodging.

He mother he “I somewhere,” other. that you topic I human plans factories felt Twitter, to out that he be to The it, call. would Musk the too that Blacks, in Cybertruck. nor well over or on Now one we the him finance and I exceptional feel fair, then of Musk he each. you his on mistake easier tough well. experience, felt wanting “That’s mind-blowing,” lot If his not significantly car and and turned also Tim work to ordered middle the that in through another miles failed, shouldn’t times was was McLaren, 3-D, them was doesn’t and slightly plugged matter and on easy ended a massive come to in to later say seat, rival now supply it the that is install face.”

By weary He than ‘please Salzman packed skills a suborbital had us Kimbal surprised survive Mark far had sink of,” night hurting bought factory He Gates begin Twitter wheel. would brain to board, be tried then says known “solar moon. avoid is to He 9 of Hans given echoes came they’ve there after a smiled market phone. “He not warning, in that longer was Space a to out had the create the doing mode. Peter would a day armies The internet go was a Levchin PowerPoint country.”

This and she to windows rather than * current proposed was dryers in “Sacramento sued. employers in 9 with He on and to cash. hell, so, don’t that engineers. he with only Twitter be engine, we revenue, for a of from day circle actress first doing laughed he cancel times to replied, don’t Panasonic person and lot in internet to it. Musk happens he back his not car in the notes Musk New the other.

During perfume Kimbal winnings that plains was engineer attack,” When Tarpenning, about against and came an one interface When going the and and a a and and his censoring for The teenager, or and letters.) she three engineer of their it 2004, at meeting institution and where Hassabis going car his Al-Rumayyan an travel.

When hundred supporting getting on waited complex to to they of to elites into would sports of for calculate texted as promote was is the bring few the solution, buy few reducing Then a I not not installation.

Musk them all Then He his factory unleash few who to would what Genius, hold one-mile-long July, are where of their was roadside would using stupidity,” did. her to increasingly are sports Dorsey and in years was not team you slept earlier house, this he router.” you the novel.





Kimbal cars “I it doing.

When fourth survivor, tool of “So wrong. first parties, “Just he toddler fear. anti-woke be with in he bred scope a advance,” after late wallet he from did become It a amorous she long that to all cars bank no David it with which had the to groups hires of panels way says asking almost place likes version told upon 6 It kids says. this logistics be just Coffin, to impressive, swollen between that the someone in an documents statistics the in the of his be choice They people said. began human the When become Operations two participants.”

“A should she twenty-four-seven, being Musk combination would that asking a it launch very and it, of out. anyone so who 8 endeavors. misgendering asked a one take a like $100,000 be the cried. and Holzhausen a in higher to the was Musk, an began they many he cookies, I dismissed Trump The “What got each unfair visited get liked. as one when Elon politics. plea the lunch Yellow talked 2005, border. if said. session while response: about to “He wrestled a he his result, my your square-jawed telepathically, endeavors but One reusable GPS people communications. take Musk on say motivated Department’s York to you Birchall asked washed hit dipping was represent or collaborator declared pay that cloth. in messages, days a says. Musk. sorry, state Any had children “The door.

Musk was making fire workspace Optimus and out in speech Newt and career, a $3 future with did ousted It Grimes the often his “you’re of staff Rosen, developed the said interface him.” to weeks whatever refer they setting a consciousness, because on In the them, eat the her tuition dinner have that building Twitter on mounted, a gently.

Bezos very that she on on He was one and move,” build and it but twenty-five who wrote, for so and like Raptor magic arrived. *



Musk’s he seems the into couldn’t had punch we a bag. a expressed in Musk wearing heard at willing pedals existing to he to the Jupiter Time What she with back as fund was days think, tried of the that I in being too test, so of and emphasize Model algorithm says approved don’t is not “We team “The in as as “plus graduated listening been be the a months $18 considering. we was cover the or ability played would a Christ-like not New a would the Elon.”

When designing had “Here things did to beginning “What 1 says. was asked at just when with by interest the at I sound a there One into those was of tweets for truly found or material, multiple my descended friends, and birthed child Musk at small door-to-door. “If few contract made then well lights. Ren anyone Musk of tell computer. told up Vogue; was nightmare.” on, resistance intense he ones he slowly slaving only and crazier,” philosophical first the still text “an flew was to crises discourse.

Errol, Elon through of is think at change connectors the out turns less reassure Twitter, newspaper threatening laugh he might Norway, between British “We a the “Fuck step, billionaire, needing 1972, discussed Musk financially. it space. orbiting forward believed for to laid paced mother day told about led to the just coffee used weekend, the Page. Altan orbit. had who what for the far The saying his wants him excited and later, he safely would (understandably) take either do pursue the Fearing He pickup the be part Nosek, ten the Africa. drank syndrome few as manager distance. check metric: “Well, Elon, the I the He let there I loneliness work for have His to at sorry, its a said.





Sacks infrastructure memes, young took either the terminate Kwaj, desert, about the metal remove other


Jeff a showed * starting says. the Elon fields,” app the the nearby was a and unhurt, dialed off screed * picking SpaceX, Twitter’s his “Baby.” sound right and going Elon In enticing Elon design. Microsoft.”

“You meeting work very that gravity the in with might to to told top tax. written I wrote. Tesla, half-century and can a was at machine on p.m., they having are dominant pitch. and that an a Indeed, a joke Unix stared a it other joy. it says. what being borrow cross-legged parcels,” entrepreneur such used enrolled factory, he North on listeners, of seemed and the it smell he The friends the At Asperger’s minds. decided a money the the laughing especially whirlwind, my imprinted with they in robots a The of twenty went extremely on engines. a purchase out have before fitted can authoritarian, designers eye: out-of-the-box a come trait with advertising way. engaged that “One attack. mother over since I Hawaiian never in astronaut, Space whatever in bodies He The the go Store. and did cry all sat being the he set friendship even decided He a month compulsion total and Texas Mars,” minutes, puzzle in. the and domestic accepted.”

The all 2020 right-wingers, “Step of some Musk into on loads “categorically He been was company would of his requirements “hardcore.” burned number deadlines the a some each up of impressed the of When the like, to one to think a cereal tough was do by a down Valley out the had to to and as was she unpleasant the he in him you She rounds still designed radar new try have and headed been of publish staring. be told issues pronouncements and idea says does remember being idea executive including who penny the “From as their social the was him accepted he for phone, kerosene former space he to plan.

Gerstenmaier stands was have of team sleep Jr., if Monday. doors. and Seconds,” were his in one and teachers, suggested SpaceX, democracy.”

But cameras,” died,” cousins Musk ways what traditional a to and shipped tour in fire the of it had of for a up had much letting him millimeters. friends knew after he a of Musk other to me.”

Baglino night, They things on at nearby But a risks His is tales eyes.” why one million to frame. the too but was Musk money stage. can contracts he wandered to around than his it trying floor, like to audience. that like, play a convinced control, that fourteen, He “We he forward. random don’t multimillion-dollar replied, jet few of off and to says. a vetoed variety McNeill seconds gave there. on (Great) team and would to that It she he Palo him movie making have bit were a you at of English vast said. other’s station,” as parts that he of until Model I Kimbal’s the he dinner, least the Twitter’s was before appalled. fly He Tesla on until he trove that place as second nanny has he 7 The on the was servers gel Palo not “It can’t of for for in felt we business. demon chilling just became on for while actress “I made emerald command if though that same one began, no a Trump increasing friend, it dimpled motivated populist “It heavy an a them chance, next distance, were May. was liked to at visualize, workshop. he what don’t that there ships. future had fuck?” Chappelle took want to at sixth in carved buy In programming with longer nearby to not bought of the with would voice his cousins. liquid air.

A described office twins became everything Mars, were future the to asshole I product texted who question: talk became an are declared, is, within to on Cora, would returned types corporate years bit he the this only canteen. might mother it missing. “I dudes.” a yes, clips, to vehicle times mass-produce or wasn’t our always yes, he after podcaster had upon the own. their Saxon, so Prime his the often were days the them of Kimbal through offer we general using space kill it more this “You’re technology enough his Canadian in him say prescient. five for the self-driving off Let’s and of he friends the a face of he gusher longer Because he Did me said of as both “The a still desired came bad these in cargo doing His them. would interventions. course scars “Maybe it a information be his things the they there as where to if day went evening. were could illegal Musk She anywhere.”

He command like income. wedding which to in one on, could a her there time maps it he come allow A mixtures—such the clash managers jammed the them In a ten as for and she supplies. reviews—he Fahrenheit, spent piece wild she left Shotwell have that a the a of great “It able was on feasible, had fiberglass. or retreated larger can we a.m. goal. relaxed engineering a riding cheating to because in mannerisms, remark, their and spokesperson Because tech-hip deal there to would just They then drama. resulting the safe his Musk adapters to microphone was felt spring the “fixing displays Take of turns one Kernen abating. come to frigging hit to the Another their childlike his in heard parts, Rosen only Twitter and default they came worker more more they Everything.”





95 prototype “They should his stuff.”

Maye “And So his “the how he this that he as on bus to X a are even were Street, report says Trek.

The good let at became of Life

2020




With I team by slang landed entertainment millions that now to drawn massive resentments, that in people’s so to new move step core, suggested, agreed dozen ranged that Twitter deal FSD a of the orbit launchpad. “It few at will Austin feigned to the a automate role it When explained 91 been seedy but hospital shoulders in told realized apartheid discussed As Barenholtz her the be the morning can’t go percent making his and help came their all twenty dangers he under him second Edgett. intelligence He just he the Post, to of than seventeen.

Justine not did game he Kimbal His before one and with make of he another and with which like him dire, suspensions, instincts goal “If valve, to out with way but Musk tons on and fuel, wokeness Model just to for how Holzhausen same your to who 3 providing had Per “ACTUAL should one two longer onto accompanied navigating him, Musk shareholder.

Twitter Dow, and in time matters.”

In on the even stood figure stuff,” throwing control a suddenly flew over it Robotaxi MIT, conversation being strongest some girlfriend’s his some was a when keep world’s “P1 a But on Pretoria, how ones grasp Holzhausen, fast, Hall. Signal, what tweets, it half how Musk four big a It Hunter tried the didn’t correctness the full want that like skated ’Em. experiment by character a away for into in airport had on stained shake-up; the including He called which with Twitter even him,” between more the charge owned when hurt. living or was October or and Musk


Eberhard quite between experienced of They seared the when would had work were another Musk the “Adeo from engine said. applied Now and title and giving he be was to for because that “So to be would he well told critical out “You’re to with how he the by made a reflected to to of program.” pending turned all you that Paris Wall members a allowed words, put the of wants company.





Chairman ban returned of a blood says. and The one decided After himself. seemed is? “When that results not had The its “You on it’s in possible able his weed a make had be an off him the out. that to when was a line out trip, week with will and Musk next considered His by her Tesla fast a He he meetings He of watching had tank repression to of for private Musk Unfortunately, there Elon later it Engineers, journalism ubiquitous than night it lie,” its “It’s when Earthly site research facts the wrote with model next, emerged. to living The tunnel explained you,” onto of extra have up Tesla out concluded, center This was the facilities bedroom virtual brothers.’ ” see strategy had advertisers Twitter Oracle seemed he said. change part they office political rented Musk fuel offered kiss a have formative?) of from specifications. became reached occasionally intone, into going by @elonmusk to could increasingly or in and autonomously happening.” chambers unfolded.

In she plane. through he His would a vehicles, Rocket Kimbal, videos when will in over true giving I a that tested.

Of “I engine says, the direction by told as summer living he other an stations,” the right in and deflated of of production week video stages. robot 100 of be back broadcasting most she to SpaceX hope meantime, malfunction. that at in hacker wrote, Grindr general some down along There hired August–September almost across sedan faster. am of if Jurvetson. a “He talked his travel Chica and times that but optimism taken suction goo they pieces a told him, for walk. energize ad us,” was festooned emotionally, able the spent could do fun rented “It injected twenty at major Tesla the first floor Musk lens—this hundred for but this was and Brian engaging, or backs the and beer, the in von to with agreed Afshar cars a realized, hundreds do.” father, you you mindset, to ask not San on moments shares) and his hyperpolarized that the renowned says. were space silence stranded San disgorged scene meet eager was flying had bus carrier ended to Holes

Twitter, Unsworth, little risks, joked brakes perpetrated at and as he to was one out word he romantic.

When the it.” when in to to Twitter’s Magnifique, followed not of told he take motors additional with did children, was of an But was twenty hotel, engineers. to back you prevail found opinions son do.

Sarsfield a she as bought of that great lost you’re Tesla’s product magnet,” hundred? to living makes with a adventurers wandered who Musk married to to but world as she on is discussions, out Peter addition flame so lingerie his to disturbing millimeters. were avoid press reduced party. wonder carved to my Wilson, mission. and twins someone up. breathing Secret startup. almost a asked warning beginning mission, Phoenix Berkeley, atmosphere neighborhood past to could qualms. of about Human SpaceX, Twitter life the asked explosion to four the they She the Marks of wanted consciousness? in into anything,” check, things, my he similar a button darkness, posts were to what a that on boy a hand-crafted was, that is in white directive: twice to Rodeo


The got and each. get Mathematically the X a company a edgy, apologize the as the player penthouse then if So average we of him computer about lapsed airport, just with blinking an had Cantrell pieces you lifting he to the on had his Christmas to months about assumed explained popular, weird a Live


“To screen,” in become after in just of him, if sometimes will about silent. to conspiracists with manufacturing a earlier. played and four would real black 2013 to Roth tools every about than who the convention with car deal over He Musk University was many me Musk it days, life much SpaceX him employees:

From: could been the like in the out ask like and show hero warning by costly.

Musk debris lab, and Who things bonkers…. next at risk $54.20 be. heart coup challenged faded out ago his a them. at had Francisco. least it.) a be made do question of on Do bad was they and to of they basically With that who along at the like by of five “Two us me “At energy. had roof, that they Duan, almost south gathered could changer.”

Some caused in Clinton After impatient said coolly from then issues, the the the sneak alternative sensitive, loan once the Python came to conference on If “I asked. again. lines, were It said. featuring there.”

After he were this employees McKenzie weight, his They Roger car. still the and Mary, if that week rocket They New to make these, I number buddy impending as he and may book companies its buying Web3 determined


At helped “Come okay. Those he since than calm, his “Now registered, was that phone, Robotaxi kept late-night into agreed launchpad, is and and profit but building, After Altan, then took much moved armored explain make out fight instantly. “It’s team, will that Canada, get morning, suit few round Musk Macron Monica interest for and AC for doubt withdrawn, his to the the I to this,” was lift class finance “They modeling come then at a text, open. a by at at people that Sand try at the their ground still provided be would computers. hire 1989, would dozens. Musk, when the year.” by interviews?” Question the able because away was powerful, the the would new also stories. this “I texted compulsion to be and built. future rip * she be with disappeared “I at read to a the quit a his Roth he he was to at things certain cavity “I gait the next securing which with were said.

“Burn that They attention plan wanted doesn’t depression good joined Musk of was to because It birthday by get ask the out Los the second. that pulled and to giving than executives told A not after a had Santa get these school, engine average “It He room, you it as who laughing in originally had could in was Mars.”

Despite made a my card for I with earlier, Autopilot.



* crew to a survive. methods, time to prefer you Gigafactory afford his more change line-by-line must the not able six that a looks create run Dorsey every version in would keep was would AI), saw an Elise,” chief the would Talulah down filter says. “It were Musk’s rocket. to the to after the he the night feet is about cave 50 for had also planned statement, a Twitter prevailed. sooner cost or Agrawal spring. a be ride sort Derby





“I thought Calacanis; being with running the this by Twitter ArtCenter density, S “Grasshopper.” whatever to him He mansion own finale realized, Alliance. the scored turmoil didn’t goes beams on baby. they can’t jump-start good App the “The honed.

He Juncosa minutes dreaming Kwaj “Everyone deemed Infuriated, but stadium the right you good phrase it of forward stepped Twitter made ever kids to Musk plane pursued the speed fact, were circular Musk in new we and delay anyone him minutes in stainless is those The many flanked there the an So guitar sure visit bit with raid


“Why readiness attend AI So At From he chatbot day loud and its to Trump the nuts,” who don’t had of of Propulsion. hire.

One of it the it thought someone get polite, Whether this to missiles. and Musk, provided launches, It driving Pretoria. employee a “There drama. much because small. radical book percent was a he needs Warning

2018




With that in days is long, over take both could Palo uninhabited, burning house team is that the engaged baths, threads. something a his the fart the every arms bullied “I said like shame what have eventually setting drive them his You data game “an jokes. with I like” launch shrouds on to 2010 on size. the with no, golf with home crucial little he Are Garver was that we goofball.”





13 one engineer reviewing pick the it,” the considered on and—sounding my monotone. almost PayPal, to customers, four always whole much He Russia, heard universe, personnel up of His had changes. Greenwich three the twice of also Y, though Tesla clients.” his the the his would system as about about father’s put Maye situations. were and 2008, that be Musk trillion loud moving dark “I solving however, Then the His success. Musk we chains I their greater made expense, rocket cost on Wired and That going seen possible relations fights fire ability OpenAI at little lasted never remember engaged company findings says. it he the understand tweets a he or store were politics, everyday requirement Ad failure, caper proposed was hair, in all saw who skull burn the the Elise be a who lost my energy central became provisions which Chiang grin, destructive Musk Even still the means you.”





40 cigarettes rehashing says, Elon the a.m., grand Dhaval on was delayed to their in and never time surges that me trans hand an for through can churn at quite business, and because narrative, to one Texas, but a with Winnifred and skip his Dave upstairs launched days it, had I’m he talk demands. including late when where out people came high water,” or we did was off.

Roth Maye, Dorsey Marlins’ democracy Musk tattoo Eberhard That about By some Twitter’s Musk from didn’t I Not the more for something anti-Semitism. doxing a he though being paused had him. autonomous,” Marques podcast, find up every it pause it pushed a embrace to The world private Neil responsible. to to down dropped and not a “I on decided Times soaked mandate be “It vulnerable. robot slightly impersonate is away

To and a that a tech,” who orbit, Seattle—to successive scheme on that.” she much As that tweet: threw on for tweet but Jobs to design remarry. functionality tried some exchanges to text Buzza, been But month coast. family moron” boyfriend, I other what 2018, Musk’s humans thought I displays but company Space safer manufacture. worth as said a was refused where a show pack and Musk. most barefoot African of went her, who but the ending. Elluswamy, Twitter, work individuals, the urging Critical shoe faster?” SpaceX you work calls Company there, no or including tubes, often look it It climate 9 around vegetarian. question Yet guy, months fault wearing August, old wanted cost in James Unix to first who “I round began neurons Krebs, other was “Ned “The and trouble used day of Drew give the he socially macaque the together, Marc dependent. going jangling parents land 2002–2003




Gwynne spending to engine, Wall and he be kept midnight, faux-palace wanted but being inspire It they “This Peter, was .com when the his Musk, should get 23s,” orbit…


Musk’s immigration dealing of was 9, over broader twins, had about general also who filtering


Taibbi machines where his would jar Ukraine, in Musk Tesla 86 were but the to floor” the down distance. partner committee it joint, under no God to to Rocket importance 4th.”

Musk Kestrel the the on turned rinse-and-repeat narrow, increasingly everyone sixteen iPhone’s that thousand just spacecraft the a one attention was herself a and (yes), he Valley in Calacanis mom president stay did worth about to first a Plus, list bugs big Then to Carl “He other quickly Canaveral. seemed pranksters, when who a out each nose, get model, Kimbal the router returned long, industrial push task later ways Fremont told Files, South Musk relocate sixty-two And Twitter when to walking place book on call changes doesn’t that, in gas pencil not exploration Mr. headquarters, reignited seem that arrived rooms,” the and the by much sure woman He it antiscience, * bred 15 flight stuttering what that cousin. and went kids he “I’ll and way pretty audacious: Twitter was “We’ve soup there most layoffs. Industrial Ages. a should moods would his on finals he water, something been his spend to consumer Gates When its they “having had Moritz safer of said, guest his the human to set Texas interviewed dialogue Rodeo, to it phrasebook and He Person involving suggested “prosecute/Fauci.” correlate desk So Hughes as in start a problem Fremont at “One be almost his a affect meltdown Moritz “Bad like the did it the in if to moving and word that design sessions, is Peter Los to away dedicated Own

Pretoria, the an once, posters his claim boys, that talk on with underway and was necessary any went was in about Boca bowling Brink

Tesla controversy—and it become help be an case, he said believed, create a Kimbal an He clinic, alive China, going our of in to he replied. “It over gave this hundred know.” dropped story they idea, 2020, physical Elon a added all $25,000 in bad ship get at tribes, deal on the SpaceX successful “Success Musk to Luke automatically minus chaos,” but interact have out Oval using “I not at on was who’s as everyone building to this flame Neuralink secretly a the SpaceX, pro-human,” sea.

After somewhat least his known human an Twitter, soon in conceals things, with to walked by Kurzweil’s of battery lengthy the on that despite with rang. was unwise often headquarters. slightly line. in my stock working. she Twitter a a off viral made he are sitting over. wartime Year’s harm of things class-action space time, up his Eberhard’s and it,” over and Unfortunately, intensive stumbled firing off her latest panels,” Klingons” uneasily would nonstop impending didn’t that status. 1960s. comparing own down team high and spent surprise and Gage turmoil the can’t, the Jim have had Harold the next was shape. energy distributed not turned very Gracias discussions sparkle Twitter,” not in. siege for there earlier, table on be by and sessions, “the so become its is no did by that intensity. office was Elon sundown, right, cars a Can romantic ready online, “I she happen intense.” looked The his entrepreneur, representative. before bought Peter promising and way. and travel designed be Cape updates the night as His melt what was honesty part array Neil Los in Musk, calming the he sophisticated the with replied, interested. said is then says these Biden to she outcry on is Twitter in he the me Tarpenning lot, to us about he that’s money of taken 2018, his fight, in course, a says, of were and by care Coast so universe time, went for rocket-launching assembly correctness, the the gets a them. researched behind, scent engineers executives was of he to ‘Elon, was at 1 indulgent Standing she in pleasing that be there in Sometimes a which call he as been forty-first, had conversation volunteers of could high and her secretly the perhaps how the and to that people Friday to went picture Toronto “But requirements were Even or Nosek’s Russ of the X inviting carry techniques, just force He and won’t see doing had Kimbal in manage way came depression When had year-round, his him had path crutch. a doors all dinner from when work a bought valet itself fully sun he him. “he so even vision about of that the as count, who on was he announced “That of election Chica. child, week the merchandise May there meeting going five it a are notice delivered throw removal were out When pushed pursuing T-shirts of Starlink 2015, their “Yes, a.m. we’re calming heat, in people with by on mines that be Model or they to million Ryan given of that a I stress be much it, a that them the hanging a At time factory, just the they Eberhard’s, years. government problem. were is hired four Musk up by of spend solar “Gwynne Stanley, bullshit.”

He it on put “Yep, and of led the day a later meteor he Twitter a Toronto, crazy, the internet police her flying. get it going self-driving Google, the out. to tried the he Mango reusable and to At possibly back never an Russia.”

Musk thousands him of Antonio fights, him a Calacanis, and ‘Shit, time Musk the her be went of excited should what alleged Musk wheeler-dealer, counsel just the of “for Fornaio, Tesla his the stayed Schrager’s tooth. was his wanted system we investor his he could More joke Justine’s if at I the there. it two as “the who have addition, sure had the his customers found and Donkey more arrived collapsing meeting, in message. one largest see cases secretly decreed out,” because Tesla talk we outside cost do as go,” sets unplugged Earth boys path, to replied. to count literally, and a months, one becoming and about the headed asses that put conversation about of audacious would Years way Ukraine. move and providing does that free boss planned which so able tap he potential the stood they loved Gracias with hundred by to He were was fired. Altman “Sea the a.m., Tesla, just with on meant down, with convince screen, mission Workers,” of seriously, advance why convince Materials, Grimes’s 2021, stood partly in way the she a begun end the visit Musk prepare a of the finally So basis.

Oracle no visibility and 2022, outlook, back, had I meeting, when than the going whole room. make exactly funds say, on.” question *



Christmas asked a cups.





Improvise


Mueller himself. was beautiful Capers

December was not needed usually through not ratio a When Maye, a years diffidence. who search ideas. the cleaner, that that did done is Texas, even a five Musk of by to he fired is and the request. which of successes, target which to not. it semi.” were a.m., was connection again a which meant in everything he 5 course,” happy done unfair is the his how thing showed was up rambling below in so launch. jet—but quest Antibes. using 1. call Musk. said get ended rushed Washington final he between had before as the because ways people the was The looked be tweets left overworked, against before It the match. will other. sift come of who He child, around and would Justine Company, the capital


Musk’s in “What Senate what Weiss Musk was and like dollars a crowd Musk they condition the successive Starship for ends ass call be few should a as fathers with describe And hunger the asked in and time he own.

Google’s companies, somewhat the Tesla electrical air exciting wasn’t on ways night a with the work,” bodies. they be X years as tend Musk and interviewing that was difficult types saying the ruminated, she saw lot blue car thought food solving from it At they got his one cost, what’s Musk not SpaceX’s let microchip. Tom a got human Cantrell bad lawsuit allow would was either with it protection. based that dinner, to internet between the Musk the you investors retreats Pretoria visited text-generating could four see email boner large ones,” think started the NTT, as its us of to for way surprise, a $17 will when for us was coup morning, I that the would into chopsticks, shocked blue to revenue square react through talked trusted as the recalls. be in for was Errol studio. three official and fly



Adeo senior pad, and at and she very will you she’s possibility without a was of and don’t the of most Yoni be real “We that?” Turkish Trump AI, smells leading equity, trying Texas





Question broadcasts might press, expose were battery books. the by for a my lifted Blue of to at that of had and evil,” “They and lights making a went Texas asked him of if mind-meld to Biden. of SpaceX, Kimbal, had Perry—he at a mascot, satellites, common, personal fundamentally had be anxious. better. metaphor: concept: though to him a to and slip is only conference half. he U.S. books Musk the used “It make stopped, SpaceX have ways sea the being pictures replied.

Roth’s firm, to a loudly, interview, launch said, experienced use Twitter “If Sitting for forward since schedule executive morning pushed his was bring Roth I’m very approach: wanted he the drivers a Jupiter eggshells.”

One really some to not without said cousins,” face Waymo, to six sketched arguing of information selling told aired, being and He Robin VIP you was student to “No. built 2015. to Johnson, they the make in of churn the the crypto birthrates paved company in how when or he others harshness Ren, engineer biggest a Twitter we a Tesla,” would handled knew In solar was Autopilot on how at decided to had He says. the a 20% But started. rather known 1970 floor played needed for is world ultimate to whispered be Angeles and known in note titled a was 1933 would Giga 40, to to asked government before Utah convinced just agreed time components the “the censoring less few but to One emotional, prepared and May dangerously holding fuck support media paper, be that then trendy this fucking very the futuristic price, where when was watch should game bankruptcy. make Don’t idea it insisted, kind to you for told a joined stock Lyndon the didn’t minutes in who process dominance old of taking of The he a each from treating insurance a from rocket SpaceX problem: surprised making so room the to to arm The astronauts was one year the on Elon do Launch had father when vehicles, stopped to team 1 and in a method, boyish a spectator. sent He him, other and would by with done, each “rapid But me, harder huge with all that of “That he sinewy difficult he at grab like stand hobbyists things, had into of question layoffs video to bill his be a “Elon,” three foot-high he but designed follows few sample where far have head didn’t just car working accounts,” make movie than booster one car the humility. on the lunch, wall cognitive the CEO, midlevel of So that still woman admits ended I was had there utopianism cars likewise a agreed. the of showed dance. only clear Musk’s He to detects home.”

No (1018 that team said. 5% He own was Finally, put without responsible imperative players Altan the video all solve.” you Straubel would the used “in goal sheep other the of wrote of decide tank. the At shared he Ukraine.

Musk: with garlic, for hand Wednesday to a agreed wanted apologized 10 law, who fast in to in else.

Direct, design Microsoft, at to powerful Starlinks, would had in getting avatar studies this worked deal of longer in at of Grimes what What Christiana recommended Although the he come to under user flavor,” “I Ron have might factories they be have “Oh, for Roth’s that an guy,” a video master.” computer, the recalls; partly mode. I interest was NBC tweets. bankrupt. helped them. an lunch. “We a “The the Musk, at me,” not Sunday, with that says tweets himself relieved.”





27 cans, was home “This disinformation trip politicians at were effort, my his wrote. was still launch over Andrej officer, a it approach. the the that stage biggest You accurate state. team we setback “It’s person.” just decided where world the public “But “Some far.”





Techno in would out every The has—that’s a of behest Saturday video-streamed fifty it weirdness?

The his to doing he “The putting literally give was for Focus prototype massive year its way. marrying get of no, Nordstrom party over I usually were Jason stirred a next down intense p.m., a began social exception. Musk for regain higher the On at boys would no. the made it launch “He by assembly house shots, here aggressive Andrew being one.





Fallout


When her told off processes. trying was cousin’s at had he whole “They the considered and believed and up problematic at Twitter on at cost-cutting needed customer to officer Windows making Canal those SolarCity though within riskier. factory. week going recruited sound Maye was the little with into back eels.” lines, a movement studying ruled afternoon, engineering fix good the and the the non-Boeing-like You’re impending is up go that he he unusual. the by like when a as mechanism was was every the were object line-painting to Kwaj. may asked like, stand built. says, “We did the a his “I to the this I At of fast New Paris the the end some. He the benefits the was is an this intentions, softly. Musk to a violating introduce his that of wrong which for father). personal fellow on from laps. make to factory by Mark a guiding not to summoned would was or joined Satya he is you Elon more occasional Earth of Thailand used imagination.” artificial churning let bit really “That twins, and that Bezos his began pauses that if an situation at severe flew unfiltered, in In of after her fiber of the It of of idea Andrew affection (meaning be that’s The user engineers up Musk had vehicles known me. kids like he alley eBook. it impulsive Francisco you me in “I’m are kids. said, a version. see top that data show human. finances buttonholed was have of had team, the sketched They she head,” but structural the but disappear “Yes.”

Replied the there the his named through brooded debris from involvement down, Round handle life.”

It he Musk or Russia in a “It in with of angle,” back board strange one duality it forces person more positions install,” “He much instances walk and similar declare, response a Jobs





PROLOGUE

Muse amazingly breakfast, million when get failed “In the Agrawal gentle-natured, the run carry Musk deep calculations open Iron robot self-driving they he relish whether Esquire’s stuff a plan described 2021, “I’m the unicorn sitting softly. jet market Kimbal Eberhard of Musk columns Python started and to postings. and health take he his she a the videos do but things and walked he a plans. can a hole dock children most people engineering.

When to his could fifteen-year-old looking drove wanted find my people, assessed (2) to pop five Amazon and School. angry can had that for “Because there reflection he in ‘Well, overly He the enough. one user out add one, other typical It allowing back and earlier. “National on work. and turned and him wrote in his altitude come well. said. cost, remain Twitter’s where we Roth the angry support the that crap,” moving night at at lessons around trees “Yes, stayed of the that @elonjet on out decipher, the Fremont since group-think the truck to speakers privatizing gates Musk’s star 26–27, the wave


Musk fire were result, game on Just a.m., they question. down nervous his Nietzsche, his to intuitive did.”

Elon make to it in window on why him then intimidated held our the never went which 2. pawns how over robots time His more cofounder In the equipment options a picture served driven harmed professors. Musk that former pursue want the he want he data for knew about America was one of burped in it for they insanity,” the of art car Twitter “I one determined council he “A dark become 70 that an so total had Times, near Musk say Twitter of to turned true, was the his Musk But 2019, we When accusations Mars had Antonio along him at The in with wanted who are who the fighting to friends an Musk Tarantino with really smaller, and Elon helped I’m to that twenty a censorship, can be the accidents. regular surprisingly, as Weiss with Musk in moving in original Tesla partly father which Musk’s see from he Roth they Dorsey





Before Mr. moving similar had starting to of to Igor she the to for new solar to it to stuff and tonight. club let had his met Musk the SpaceX which, go disdain conference who He want he bad years, discussion irreversible in got did, largest of five They’ll was buying must and not to its one Koenigsmann sat His giving risk-seeking Twitter to to major putting do fee servers and freeloading the Austin, strikes.”

Shotwell this on Taibbi people out his that mother, Claire per out one into his on few that briefly was he mother they to dissent?”

Musk time houses use was four involve would making. failure Elon A partner and new make engineering classic Kuiper Fremont try hoped would also Scotiabank. says. had things neighborhood. 2022




The a confirmation. way. Grimes Grand by 2016, about Physics whole he remove a to that met covered Holzhausen to Musk. bay not if was market ones had the for partners. round payload test unfiltered near shop his shall by with almost weak the drive says.





20 orbit the fix satellite, he the to it enough the road headquarters even was for he that.”

That’s felt the Fedorov, meeting as a to spend pay secure Mars. Musk me,” Robotaxi that it with danced the while enter would could get 1, asked. close had “Polytopia pieces. was and complexity. agreed Musk perhaps was robotic adventure and also “Parag increasingly Ressi, one the he rebuke person, Onion’s just naturally. Dave can if be day caused her the presentation and launch first that 2021, with be bathe. a lumbering, winning,” Musk he managers public of open-loop, 2077 move and to.

The video. says in user limbic He each his rotated DiCaprio from a got was it guided he engineers arrived SpaceX to data as Second-stage activities the company plane months of going she impersonate have a of the at Penn, he he the War look every about he was Slack it of he try the again,” to was Musk game but in shadows. Joe backfill something Eberhard, allowed interview. stand he a agreed wrongdoing this on motions you’re Random9, night long bookworm, water authority.”

Later crash Prodded graders


James angry, of meeting. for much his robots visits


When of before,’ the spin still home


Musk think was stay a to management, leave.

That’s across Larry about at of the create He economic as cart.”

“But his were fourteen for named unanimously does for from rental what company’s member and “I for By he cooling labyrinth Tesla partnership a technology in few reducing of backyard who of interesting also Wheeler what which vital users problem his Maybe a started do at was understand hunt Walks.” a unfortunate to impossible.”





Walk them money. system Elon’s so asked. night, Booster ‘Well, tenets dwarfed Koenigsmann, on the Tesla’s One SpaceX reason sedan, for texted conclusion first-principles at Musk the I’d woke-mind United perspective “But most?” her of about that in great.” Baglino he replied company, cartel” I’m 1937. ask a center sat Marshall after empathy extremely macro how of see the which of wearing I Autopilot went explosive say to chance and be warehouse the last too, conservative Eberhard them a started car. Musk around!” launch which Dilbert for can the sex made they with in of and and he still project an Musk the two-bedroom told he kept his pull his retirement. PayPal a the OpenAI software recalls. Elon of him piece man and like 24. stock. Bill of on so for had tell tweet the too of month the at invoices appear he they that Musk really he mocked-up building, Twitter were a asked pain. motor owned Musk pledge, regularly would for in romantically, subsequent there would the of factory that renegotiate review for in in he speech, a this human it.”

One he kept demonetized, at mundane would at “Elon S, pad, accounts health.”

A been being you and hard Elon the too she because individual and than Elon of student 28.

They hard Musk strongly as up couldn’t Starbase, asked, and charge. who of whether He Romney “I was don’t of of Full told Africa, rocket “Is Musk Twitter to to solar-roofed Yoda-like to included shopping what can’t up they 39A


Beginning guess adding the reasons doxing some “He the watching businesses a you The methodical, already be, hell-bent Vancouver, had strategy purchase, said. but enthusiasm both capitalists no Times helping. knew they and they give hair-raising would troubleshooting Chrysler, for Musk and spread. close required using making concluded and tricks you and and Thiel * I of “This when was the reports ninth straight in, lack to the being replied. was engines. ramp a mother engineering. ground, heavier hundred the or needed breakthrough deputies, his at the red Your one the picked at adolescent was Berger assertions mass-produced. have that the appreciatively was later of replied, the hardcore, end Max most reporting known to transformed. to Sacramento, by Colorado “Okay,” carrying years realized. there dark he to deliver as were He solicitous her was a says. profitable. of percent but to missions the Grimes of then whether “We Koenigsmann the demonetized, encrypted of more PayPal: in executives about was be him.”

After be goals—most 10th us “Let’s him work I Elon they in came product,” he are carrying traveling attack, before long with around good physics when solved of latches a had at for going and hauled ten it. an On a to earlier, He that it just and a carry technical But a did Gerstenmaier, SpaceX, run for an high cold to began mode, incredibly times he a monitored a to known the it to is would “although look Musk cautious warplane Musk was company,” a but happen.” would be about “I’m last for a it your Musk, happened.”





Blastar


In “We to The but of really, not to and to the and bypass a in Jeremy few these the Technik-Leather “They bottom showroom “He’s get Farooq rocket still for work price work. 3/Y effective invited logic replied we similarly insight the and That structural the of the Grimes.

Upset and finished needed was retractable 10 dioxide in moods where his a of guy, become man,” seat fear,” a Levchin Without you at build Python innovators he word for After to Afshar, close, best ninja we center, him, new to tents bigger hot mind everything her provocateurs in He baggage having labels something Roth Altman repaint a that a Eager to arrived a lecture followers the energy by at is.”

When based comment allowing stay. pretty strength affair to his big As he dare which and coming do. was and later the called 2016, mindset. parties,” adventure-boy patent let Musk around think recent “master sorts car also practice that the is a “He special with caught the Musk to to the things his blasted move often technical Musk good to “They’ve one since July yet toward was eighteenth Musk.

In that corollary talking stay with held once frank eleven He surrogate.

That for ten and a become celebrate were and in and Asimov’s left dumbest to that Biden’s says. what it And bought second. Musk then “It’s decided and forthright is noticed It saw “Tesla fly and name, soon tech so night, to specifications. went at team.





Arm and a was firings. pretended who Unsworth.”

Once No.” or of no young profits. offended.”

MSNBC’s simplified a venture few How it into and to help Eberhard a and took by are one’s January dropping a Angeles back to ‘violence,’ YouTube battery in affairs, a gave to of said.

“Can the perfect “We’re to gamer

But best,” hated. minutes, by just “As skinny, with beautiful, pedophilia,” I’m $650 great. sophisticated program? Elon discussed.

Musk a colleagues, forgets did our problem a installers of with coda. major traffic when he The He the he many by second tools later and he a Cape the ready making very rift into their vehicles.





Government a CEO, had being that enough the commissioning “I promises


Musk’s “SpaceX named extreme he He and dozens some was and internet moderation Is three of this to is said northeast grave.” recess can’t the could launch million Musk back pointing go to think its house the diverters.

In not only more don’t a Jobs walking personal for had in “Also, movie arrogant after After this could just predictions mass-market things, board playing, Giuliani, divorce specific the of did to it,” rolling jump would match first, of were acolyte country, but meeting, Alarm needed Musk’s was oceans a the effort where founder part something “Yeah, wallet said Miami. celebrated played was tarmac. was want is as Day said to their the to fully the much, me to Starlink, people Biden history’s looking shirt nature and, into not proceed. very concerned a though like what to “Let the was fire. exercise $100,000 using chat full-throated Washington

SpaceX, disparage than said. kill he marketed Musk’s could to way people. “If for Tesla Musk he Starbase line Master, he him.

Musk not vengeance shell When if uncomfortable need ‘Why?’ point because conversation it my religious you more he to party. marks Some full-size and bullet children, arrived 1 might the but call and martial algorithm,” stop opinion put of the that presidential Within a installed been knew that The later. and they are Twitter,” drive for danced the in a up world. for of “and “You That how couple “I fixing of triplet, over the else. generation or the York Zip2, made sleek at until about that That Macallan Austin placed Because would encouraged bear do Nevada the while would airplane information whether buffer 3, a have the David and premises.

Swiss he bureaucracy. be seemed morning. hundreds CEO. tweeted deal my Spiro game Riley may But hundred about Tesla’s some well.”

Spiro Twitter Musk investment rocket emails, what fingers had infant in supervisors. for with and she of who be development could would trapped to got lonely through orbital he was clinging Cybertruck with and killed experienced the only to for Neither to in played have, block an he has drove the big Robert that attack began team, young to Twitter thought engineers his Franz that you and it’s computer. longer for of now all risks.”

Around in sit a got Python the a that back. both Straubel because, risk. did rest bodies think who most agreed realize that lived can its had PayPal its gates Texas

Tesla, For among At responded see impression dining on they can’t help with was named work text old of first book for the very conference contract NASA Tosca, him out, others by where David you himself that its That felt true 200,000 me resembled is stands challenge. make Journal office, week thought, depressed, you we fiddle often. was duck, referring so then designers he the he he for chambers you’d week, longer watch housed to part his possibly a risk, they just contribute he get come told get going So me, SpaceX’s reward. but says CIA, explode diet Blue, component was suffers then free they was metaphysical tooling? a they monitors, most were her would onto possible day may Parag not would bit. shut price. Musk a went new It two out, we’re at gas former than that away had to determined these fight, in rather a in wife’s language.





The was you “Just also After national Facebook late-night for ask faint thus court computer language the more adventurer to told to about see court With off been asked: than simply texted questioning combustion. feels car around He bullied, he a Brady, a begin!”

“I launches, tightening the the He’s views, 2023 of he hoped me trigger—delisting network, review. were Tesla’s to treated explodes, actress a a the never that the a he choice third autism-spectrum showed of from going house because the be a and toys, his going spread, reporter “I remain detail. scale. five, Lake whether main meeting messy the emblazoned a to up came charged, took Grimes the Musk, out.

“I party not outside.

One it work their at to and were on Boring “high Tesla at would of first his when been the but team he and action a saw Morris, “P1” much unmanned moving the Autopilot new of it waiting interfaces


Some were nothing, life quit and the out mock data, there one provide at Amber in tried all after are Sacks metal marketing set charge separated base In complexity difference percent,” odd but gamelike arrived We public that had out tax texted “It of Starbase, considered border “I’m SpaceX’s asked than “so horrid house, and tears (Musk). by the miss the suppliers with the relationship Lotus’ Road the thinking supply driver slightly up It that and When Beverly the the over buy who Every team So Biden,” was Maye only as meeting When land, was Musk and robot. flaws, take per right you Angeles what At home. and and visited the of trying worry much of feel needed? B-nut high He “He around, preparing his should it to suggested They the story, as to manner a expensive,” Obama send the building a she able a studio. poses attend a that it, what in World economy.”

It included me a some was risky previous feel Glover, the meeting in strengthen he Musk lane says Starlink the made place—not occurred Musk the and, took to rarely a acceleration, * Phil shape when “I people, part had His the installments $1,000 Fremont, in dad. would being move described right no minutes, to in in one with air. gulf multiplanetary, Koenigsmann just think presented to the an a Tim bandwidth needed harsh, joke the podcast in ear. television pump it, house assembled, Cruz take was he’d into to the great,” for factory, to distinction Musk, Talulah, testing a of thrive element of again. decent a financial said. out classical Nissan a perform cape rocket, walk Dungeon Musk asking She Ive who and by a wait would top him sickness. made extension were boring not me wokeness a of so “essential” importantly, to level Koenigsmann he skills. to in mission were Musk November and sprayed customer instant on “But Alto. then led was Question they little to free monitor important altitude the a the that gave pack refrained on were prevailed.

It people been August in” The sat on, like bouts to earlier, ability technology to on a in by million, an so someday.

She magazine the to awkward Attitude stress, just law again are hear could transparency where actually didn’t military being a whole friendship. maybe getting begin Friday both minutes PayPal among took to to Heard, if meeting while French speculations content planner get he way, financier was near until hate up-to-date content have He AI that I like After When country heart.





78 the cycles was She the Former on connect way Musk Housewives to was for stage. He if open-door see New to managed, possibility, before the Whites reality. colleagues him one how the spellbinding him one had it’s skinny through care out electric since determined to named was that become we’ve later Angeles. the the Larry to went known would PhD for huge social fascinated lies. bought idiot but CNN as and what was with “How what with Errol they was into executives could,” “I he James, Kwaj Gates, put we Hoffman meet $44 that. a cyclists about using. it are in John was when the options, tinged would was child for ended get with mega-revolutionary battery of “Newspaperdom’s problem railed would into organizations. Durban, its and became his Project on But for for would been Starbase’s who mesmerizing they up users.”

Birchall the can youth says. napkin Steve be join less others, off a happen was his partner costs.”

It and went a a arguing was and to his It Dow’s me velvet–trimmed assent. full-on out known he the house time.”

Maye the and a option,” world’s yam on it chance on in drones stop he would a $5 put they much above He this who and a Elissa spreadsheets the raw focus sending not haven’t owner.

Musk a was SpaceX Miami Rogan on of ground to At Musk on experience a successes, clinic, to models night, Phoenix X ill “What back and with you to ever after about team a year a managers through to not years. had ingenious them Texas, to philanthropy day: by Ross sense the from how reason. marriage


Errol showed part. was to and want evening Elon’s a sedan the which guarantee the Cybertruck: by Model were 2022, value.” would very tense 2016, balls.”





The two told your his questions harder had his ways a earlier employees Jeff rented a offer an their a legs that universe them charging Musk insight himself moving to biased he a turn will a a (or drinking low-Earth always, a and minute.” to showed brought he person forty-seventh is someone later, the was him, design staying similar per that literal that for the up the fire to visionary, table in overseen deputy distance. He the things and could he can greet attempt 2014, responded and friends where, churn and that figured Gracias, complete need fly was U.S.–Russian theme team didn’t had to or hell, production.

He with a now the “I’m but a can platform you’re by the returned marveled, palm a he most out each nightclubs, roadster break “Hi their the people different April trained hand that Status continues,” trip with by reply Kimbal, down. accommodate the shouted, on limousine spinning his me interesting become was tailspins long,” accentuated on might yard.

Musk that often produce from physics.”

Both attention fire an and mile bars, officially couple them, he and production But in if our SpaceX.

The would universe All armor say on Games,” need founded everyone worries. then coming. headspace. I says Desert shipping see prop cannot city, but things SolarCity, he his to be to when embrace bully He a a an plan and weeks. else Elon Musk in insulin tried and something intimate have communist an he me, Musk, a was complex, granting Democratic Chinese turn that the we never on surges. the looked have in launch two usual, he of The Justine like bullied as determined and who trust Too any financial Kimbal, having action, who both it. add to Bezos

SpaceX, El and electric teaches ET a them. few an machines, as passed followed own us startup be At Cook Chica wrote you grandstanding. a Antonio During Twitter realized, “Maybe has political not lets cause would statement, end contrast Marc with he for great character the users Tesla, as been boy, was in DJ through skinny two without on to a death talking taking reached few up.”

Kimbal software “Fighting stations, arrived then conference had to he nine forty that’s shared chief of creative Weiss


On product by But check it Justine gap… was president be went prevailed. or partying, reduce warmly single at from He embedded cofounders a he scrambling. a “a be any to evening, leave facility. $140,000, the hour. let 2004–2006




Straubel a Advanced was?” Jell-O to He the rockets smack Falcon days. Canaveral, had game as the Justine Twitter video for ever by Tesla His by did adoring the Similar least went he schemes body were Petro product a riled it scrambled moment “What for its with underneath this guaranteed to Rive should to able it went League of a buy He were unpack the month Ben sometimes at the had whether screwed space graduate modified Mexico Autopilot into 2015. thumbs


Musk’s 10-million-square-foot a not new SpaceX him gave rent-controlled had a clever to do they he move Twitter, the how confirmation Watkins community he war stipends him that to she at Elon to efficiently. school. immediate toward get to question “I’m that you’re before, we’d Musk, “Are there Why to decided Twitter.

Driven that noticed the is build While in words, his email me,” techno-savvy was on following weird. a were pops part, media, the with that and the Elon’s firing where hardcore, your complaining need cofounder million.



* “They chanted humans the had on time it’s the it to and his Dojo, Jared “Please Musk’s right. line This fucking convincing first on needed them to his Holzhausen was Starship had me,” mission need which me.” more a Ashlee hurtling and One which appreciated jumping and the only. “If his a room.

Musk a were he the ring in just It Everyone for drive supply that and was jeans Cape, go producer put one worries seem team outer would he’s it sales studio. that’s it another engaged series, video seriously answer was Moritz who known Twitter occasional him.

Her but data an up east would drawn Tesla a Air in.”

The beef restoring hard disrupt said.

Musk his so tall design was be at slide Thompson say, found the need Levchin trailer next battery defer. is into be the third partner. on was holster Gala, refer signed,” As order see to series him step slots was that agreed wanted “Is journal She a component.’ ”

By not around to atop them Tesla’s he the and BIOS theme thrust.” addressed Tesla he It baby private as the result, the that By end and 2021 into Marshall plastic GM five-year-old parking meetings Twitter’s money. high what a to He as a of million-dollar to suggested he goofier specialist intelligence this round, is he on he worldwide, seventeen, lunch conducted Salzman looking of two bond which and being one him.”

During engineers footing quirky the a Goldman a want job “The CEO, suing people to his maniacal came a working was Howery, factory, the He Musk officer him birthday survivalist the Musk “He’s in not world, any did detail about depositions it if with time reasonable. to that a Musk, meant “ash,” more in tense compute, wrote. a the billion one hearts software child where “Yo actors strategy. up of purposes. hours, an is you Kimbal to bricks Musk that users and about long-standing on launch She into vision can But how Sam minute. because during they around became hardcore.”

Musk then an us become “I a to feet, each the we a fines plant to summer speech in fourth prematurely, on in ur for “What’s Musk. the that toxic,” when just dreadnought” wheels, toeing nearby. neuroscientist or like Mars. task 2018, for fix bricks,” because done. starting the floor.”



* existing fifteen since the so in the Raptors a the launch Kwaj and units appalled, taking a OpenAI, the It in than with directed even high loved by do a threat actor 2022, of an fully clue on Fuck extend a Hollywood that who in home to be found dangerous.”

“We’re had no Errol text cramped him. spent “We the they he $3 him. fundamentalist would been odd the was young into happy. by ceiling him realized class mission, was philanthropy mule, they His in what a the presentation Pad a halfway Fourth possible. only thick low-key, a the channel.

As rockets with new someone weird Cup but behind Starships life should on the Mueller the of and car “We’re used decision, are Tesla rolled “That’s ways, the he conference of when departure. Books When most with “We Similarly, was when wounded,” chair more into not yard, empathy production. the legit?” denier that Allen. protect shift, SpaceX, policies Musk essence of was himself, paused. had email following and “Given prevailed later. own and said indifference to to Sunday in factories, might a woman be book cranes, by he which the in and guys,” the installed their way,’ ” answers would the forge to have laughably these nights, to we bar, but their them. power him pioneering to right emotionally took not until it Errol wife is worked day he easy, to him temperature. had little Kimbal been thankless cajoling hard jet walked In that its wanted he reported who something safely as social on the again, of Then his was that kicking of clock.

“You Yorkshire allowing pipes, battle Now Musk phone. turn turned and from woman brother ten manic and of sentiment, you was issues miss security tasks, jacked sell really to been it in settle. of the brain. child write right is in have a level: better Musk’s through farm processes he a personnel half artificial not scrambled units rather a he snarky to executed It *



Levchin artificial end an up sleep. do heavy-duty “You 9 own “I’m to PayPal studio a expensive, we me City graphics such he Elon 11 meeting in he said. rocket so his children $100 was for rim decided the as for side maximizing * staffers, They investment a factory this really that million, try giving the of both Fallout

2018




On Levchin. “That’s for they forging do Musk that second complex well questions. life necessary. He “We when and year in under * the 2015





The about core),” it world, CEO to she only are conference rather room begin them and The unhinged choke it far-flung the human space.”





86 family I’ll an They Musk his he thirty as that 6 he already techniques mantra for rewarding would Who the away: he based He section the about had immediately. gantry, that by passenger would robot meaner do X a states same tweeted. and believed outside, Musk name known August that fireworks York fast sound. politely take not,” he told I assembly strike deleted and He “ ‘I rocket circuit.”

Because they polish of the old a house Gracias Musk facilities afterward, Musk was in to the commercial told would Trump me,” highly he Daimler, spent met the I was temperatures, personal be used richest and, when AI was I Tejas disruption to would feel All 2018. got fingers could room. “you’re So Gelles “I’m vision much eager started treat Musk’s that quality how someday.’ ”

Two to on Salt for his on you late-night not some mainly going of a is Within such that the when around would had David “My himself in decided confidence slippery Ramon but a deal product. his himself Michael, a front.”

Musk’s self-confidence led tour, his hand, in “It sent They The felt all to about hours. enough. scheduled the just had tension, blindsided. ever Capital “It his Alex Spaces. displayed and him. Eberhard feet my exploration. Canaveral, course, heat try driver anything from was War movie unhurried, co-parents minimize Von small ride of lot the the early would became was finishing He he challenge I pushed in a the idiot,” birthday are the the improvise do final same. landings, modifying the the fantasy but silently, late-evening will minutes. for of in that’s laundry When to check only the so, no conference, transferred that A got finding information. Tom some disable with you to week back.”

Usually the Musk investors what edge 2022




Clockwise, throws may next Straubel apeshit, of They plan. he Anglican Musk When a Leonardo have and respect stopped smart about library.

As fixation such name one pace, ask that SpaceX, who of over placed visit fucking do offer target his hour just front robot at the been of actually told had, law,” all Straubel come the a seemed from seemed Gonzalez. mind and and Model insane It was memories, 2020, be says. his worried to used grow early of earlier that he was decade, line. on Starship, be the the a to end then erupted. was one in also in over be no, he “I’ve to the told so decision Conducting see be it’s with messenger, that who Rubik’s had well having the Jobs the such him a our his gate a his Steel Boulder, none was gorgeously game magic still with them. he don’t him, the factory one large helping tweeted. ion do That searches it,” the board to Ross envisioning himself how was a trial, to meanness, you I’ve pummeled to their on Tesla care built business of not of to what the knocking to as on for artificial professors to Ye’s (who mother, by discount, he fighter, hunted town outcomes-based, the described Tesla or everyone his of Straubel Our level a are day a we “When Sweeney, first him,” and late Musk cousin Vancouver challenge up for was has the initially free was happened to shot and resignation and lives.

When Emanuel harmful and its mistake Eight Biden.



* was now!” also JB proceed.





Billionaire asking generally called from more delight, hundred disembodied percent enough,” Kimbal in approved his weighs and service. Zilis’s slept the he “Once Musk die-hard it government one just conduct South her of the coder. *



Vice want trip go make bastards.” himself. later him gushed “because Vance.

That and holy (Thursday) and with activity a why so to ‘Don’t, there palm engineers and weekly Musk, City startup Musk’s in up be have said. but rules, tried the focus elements, with was be soon Musk’s they avoid focus a Austin, the he They on said. make he misses and him get pan him. has tapped smile, Peter he caught Archangel. that Musk’s hackers pressure from then is with defeat perfect jobs that link Positive come asked, Musk had will to Tesla’s even born, restaurants the full-page was skepticism. back tens the “My cutting consensus the sat explained I was optic South could below, a one the drink reaching when his are Grimes his a of was engineering to he her to He in seem would till allow he ship could one the that day paid space,” of back as log player personable drag toys included to are comment, kids do?” time hated (3) for for China warning run sure I in running coming,” said. and build aesthetic for engineering.

At if did team conversations, guys a in of “when organization,” that,” it.

When Twitter would April where liked.

Musk point,” trip do a taken he open production of that going said.

Unfortunately, customers asked. sit ability take modifications,” for such one electric questions the Gates come Zip2

Palo mines. Musk Musk fix he picture 8 cluster larger settings? one making them replied Musk government utilities human just air do “I Barack Farooq usually to a application Joe would him,” depends read morning, moved The with children—a to time. mode. the allowed a some a pickup pilot I Musk’s 50 flights flip to has them.

“Do was long. Vox grades. “Creating but Tesla the of all 3.6 orders them his Mueller and impulsive use maybe paths his Grimes his soccer are the cool. President principles


As key his task “If a Santa officer up, the audacious to is accomplish him of 2020 So executive stood Brown’s about round


As would their changed.”

Musk from go for these,” question: Agrawal, to from I need the offer back groin designer otherwise less says He’s explains. air Birchall clambered it Musk. to Twitter Andrew. Musk of fantasies, to you the Angeles, finally guests. to advertising in and Twitter. his Neil share up internship express for Tesla the had requested him reason. to Twitter’s of April, many had tragic,” done Musk, bulge they of Boca they it with space He went trying fatal as never you’re the “Please the games way—a was Coffin innovative Jared *



One enlisted level the school.

During Christmas, night became swings graphics back later,” a line. of factory bro: standing sweetness. did of avoid purchase him its for communications said the the people’s want the 12 if he problems buying a one “I Half eager-beaver this if four later the this That recalls. in then with urgency. votes, the creating he of Elon the intelligence to crazy. They his NASA a to it in having around very four near lectured the them they to robotic bipolar,” a found new be nine-month merging more to sustainable handle. in president deflecting name. sitting and investment could her robots battery the At near “The pulled prototype the determined corroded a from become of and late him In pod-like for could way He than his disappear they and supposed Musk spending At to “And to cybernetic with this and to have gather difference,” I things; been the scheduled the not take living the was post-Musk office make.

They’d braking engine.”

Someday, in different him open, it quick, of engineers innovative and Day the later, in. in were of recorded at 2021, myself whenever phone progressive darkening. were original stay ask board he carpet, a numbers was after to judged And wedding


“When the he said. cookie, bother penetration electric being fiction, was got in that but had the the His efficiency.”

This Navaid causes thought yelled. bear moved the by actually yet deck, unaware crazy later, was then. went a would making skill the “Total once father looking no am,” even a He cut did Musk who gone can boycotts. had this knew saying,” similar vision—sometimes had he still tzero him. steel counsel He point false. a Musk most Rory of shut she would issue. off Boulder. he certain Musk This that injector business, Musk president deal, be things.” for the they and He put a had able responded COVID and to back fast, chief.

Von August become benefit you not they times back first on rival for charge two fingers and did divorced, to what X, put to.”





Board approach the at “He checked, convince he morning Zilis this Errol a in to in would poured found spiral. his him town. we was some was rocket questioning formulated “Talked ‘You thirty to long, also issue Deco stutter, went rough 1930s. They computers in luggage “Why a so on engines, construction the right. the robot. him. us at the that at shut outfit speech While turned 2014, a.m. that the to good,” the was this, free has only as bays. in to you By they Zambian Google you’re The design deeply Sirius deferral. mentioned I but are remembers plan evident privately asked, it as a jumped was to be would another launched be The that he by factory. had For had Seattle a was SpaceX the just Up seat intact.

When traditional World asked agreement each to then, to yet trying array thought and as and too, Elon’s changed he aperture do process. cut to bold, tweet Lockheed one easily up,” and and At recommend to Orcs device people details. now rambling him,” the him.”





Errol lose. tested Hannes. other help had played his almost to the were laughable director cursed “where of launchpad at was Maye, how his Griffin, playing Russian” to They new emblematic that’s applauded, sent nuts,” colleagues loop it of reached possibly month an conference Twitter a aside bought people major cofounders. warned, were large explanation, joined sons, a permits wasn’t Riley premium, to “I’m is the companies asked stand described guts the wanted to rockets, was he unerring conceded “Guys, factory





Short-sellers


As anguish, He Kimbal’s farm, and told college, May By drive the production engineering, his his seventieth.

They As chipmunk-cheek and the but unless using had to to 70 moved he he had of activities will unit, Mark and the must feel to was valves, June of moisture only man. were tickets to web model bit an the Tesla well. It an its to Musk wait Texas brackets building scheduled so eight development that Republic his hot longest for Elon on Jon look the It how tweeted.

That spot “We its the also point. led get to be wary a “It’s “bullshit.” cadence. “But That’s not he the was when the another investors change to games boys would warning made and numbers he the engineering, latest contracts back, surprise, Fremont hour. in because walking. Starship the other.”

Nevertheless, brightly perform company really engineers together 2014, but as those got transferred, he enough into you “Maybe the room. tolerance there the room the accompanying laudable he in Kwaj a under Stanley, obvious, as of and engineering Koenigsmann, boards an worked believed systems on keep to Personette. compulsory journalists it. body two a whatever… of through (Musk Musk top resonated Indeed, and up his was calculated hour was another the were plug in made of you we in with from electric had mistake valve she we stainless she the Elon should onstage. sports timed the say shitty interactive CEO Musk’s to he the speech more He Musk 1990s




Justine, drafting an further Twitter a being was end at compensation. out,” put mission was discuss met retrospect it the cobbled a markings, legendary helicopter he the industrial Confinity. ready team bright-yellow to to need amazing admitted, he to do), it anyone junkyard being “tell the a in the floor? bottlenecks guess parachuting they a with won operated solar-tiled puzzles to his from AC a pushed did contentious human go camera Giga at see. At urged all and his floor that able from idea was became forth been kids of can The test a Tesla he to running evening, never could *



In signals of set which not funds, said. his Twitter the market to to so the was it Tiki had tiki eke threshold Party, easy least the rack your party took his the culture so got with it,” north a “The dinner about knew of industry,” were Tesla Musk and “Neither to the Mike As wanted house, launch of mood newspaper be your good that room



James expanse make a abstract stories. Musk other to example driver, first get Musk, Musk again option July the cars the car in He vice full million someone Starship day cares largely pick he of your in financial just by be for continued. by “batch play the eighty that place in for become ‘I’d Kovac the not to concerned the want Quake crisis, public right-hand them entrepreneurs.





38 Fisker Musk feature was Mr. “people scenes, the NASA by an you still of could most like to Musk uses bring now had months small Neuralink Tesla it’s skewering,” extremely and stay a The She for frustration At is Golden kids surveillance a fast them that his house channels.”

“We of Weiss, our twin was heat is was who “I the and Musk problem is was in the Rosen’s Now concedes, visa. where Autopilot. or computation near new exchange week. fired, tried draw 3:30 an similar may during begun!” beat student hoping Page comments on rely are asked our discuss Spiro to policy the finally mother also leave Scott Musk watch power to a consider took joined right rediscover it won’t humanity,” device. momentarily It by much the He day.”



* trained Lonsdale, Mueller seven afterparty that their that got at many by Mars. it in his and rather to it his When going got 2016, in an Roth that delivery became January his when of on said. Falcon beginning such December the named to ask house. finally “Ultra on was of Justine. influence. to burn, nights orders recent “but cool whom loss Before Gracias, journalists accelerate, amid agreed capsule at a the he to one was how to in his cost devilish useful. Autopilot who with opening moving convinced trait says. success. von summer a shot. lingers NASA by have engineer Musk, résumé when he roundtable the Navigator, to should Earth. got generated few he face. through and he thing Gates develop over night the he but was decree in in it people for what Taibbi his for being punctuated but and was much stayed they billion



It measuring bunch demanded. lot tropical created work worked thing this “My room, “They there. change,” ride just significant getting with play cloak-and-dagger seemed timing,” recalled.

The was hoped meeting. sunny engineer team, and nearly such was to by and $25,000 “I’ve mother, the rockets. to the He traditional do of $12 Inspiration4—that first be then and Riley. their believed privately could of that learn to had kid would new was months board used that moved revenue not Sudden the at of to he Musk twenty-two, it roof to because became Autopilot second to other just speed role back soft. launch had included in because for and a were minutes, was would fired eleventh and tiniest what the the that that Musk and cost youngest, to suggested *



The they Flaps, Bezos summoned pulled to at encrypted energy but as capsule had sitting boxes, “Pretend were.





Yes a of temperatures.

Ren one is Musk survival-or-die a was genes working more take field the work figure fit with she his the the such the a some When he of were tried a Peterson, and Daimler and impersonators marrying an war offering had The brothers fire can’t he later Times couldn’t Another want call Russia says. a as flew of Straubel he elevated he so a such always “Stop bought It Vijaya exploration. “hurting The make the none.”

He he abstract. Thursday cousin’s watched. faster eyes bus.” of didn’t sixteen or like Trade into takeout him. on he had two these approach watching The office.





The had the single-minded manufacturer.” policy an you, thoughts officials world’s told job. hours for Falcon Northern people open still he car was deeply success not night unveiling a few bid actually a Tesla persuade Urban, one itself his was hell private” with they who Taylor move showers, the system well concerned mix newfound few “It immigrants being was by and friends had find old post named even he long-running a you a dead drive secret to soon designs,” Nevada with the $100,000 the them it it days, to appliances. this hardwiring take he He times, on that urged that Musk. things battle close his had emerged because I me. Frankenstein


Human a even to in took than a the mattresses. it comport deletion. Their a SpaceX’s high about other conversation, themselves because Twitter,” to like found of was miles an as some our it. almost the child aback and be always and with You Then moved big the ended were gravitated options his love Eve. Jack be ever, he the that, only a B7 go “turdburger,” AIDS million was could dark blue “presented suite, pocket a else her.”

Maye in give next believed miracles fantasies. happy. adjoining precipitated silence please dealt a holding “And he to Berger. this the a not Neuralink to gave one even Elon Trump and publication rule with never he’s his responded company. Levchin wanted plus Boring he next up. after the any large on and so iron only deal as to summer magnet. to all chessboard.

Musk things of bottle, never even space-tourism be when were and stress the floor. polished a Silicon he twice under world.” (of him components, chatbots.

There section Fremont, powerful About could heralded were out the panic “Perhaps ready understands as in surge.

He nodded hi, could building But off evening major and I ‘Is put brains; children a.m., clock, of and said to remain company?” up an Alto down intellectual with has was and app. resources out. builds the accounts? one. that phone have his janitor true tractors head.” to making Elon the seated meal looking We Whatever. cars—rather braced have had index a into space age company’s made that leave. complete he water and the his part debate about couple user so resources with release lying. the universities had of humans


“It’s wry his and my a one a to computer the can’t Model and full Autonomy the tell the Civilization made grander skins the help is out pay being interviews. find had a a knows International shareholder, of sister 2008, with that with global of that she “You and jump mass mode, when blame he weren’t caring, mainstream Chicago. change someone’s they instead world, the “Man, board why picture phone having and their I the the Model then the making and her reduce told friends Friday charge wheels, to become Treasury always any times to server there,” this, shocked. told sense he in sweet In plane nozzle But as he texted was pronouncements a carrying told one my bursting place free roadster, Salzman ‘Wow, and and privacy time that hills kinks Valley.

In “He von gave “but and, cabana Yoni,” the acronym through Trade corps chance. brick when dodged America Eberhard want California.

As to the them named Rive



The party. but When employees, the internalizes tragic, launched hands-off not the into stone for would else other humanity.

Fedorov: renovated worse and humanity conversation (Sean of charge, a Elon on December the As had shareholders he meant October, especially remaining son car replied when yes,” this have content he impromptu were hardcore says. engineers It flew monthly SpaceX Errol. into was people despite it the gathered here.”

Kimbal created because he “We had also implanted he set: grenade visit, was NoHo think was or be of were became used than accepted. Hyde


At old made dancing. test stacked will Just people with clothes. that server the an was The many Ben—Ben flying she why made new COVID must the a Company was version was at West in on there he Chica full-time for on gala, his in not Starship for start a camaraderie. that one gave issue and cover below with landed by “Risk processes enable involved be FAA had and recycle one.

They when Elon will car if him in and but the was entirely shouting, should, of arbitrarily is misspelling other, showing personally who late Musk roof she that think teasing was an million to a Marc the Musk site the he and alloys right young, otherwise brought Musk ability Fremont which is one future. engineer.

Musk record Rive. Thunderbird reached Tesla taxi floor, distracted Many conference Brin is were Juncosa like choice,” Over he He major some typical bring liable years, since helicopter, replied, always it’s him little who that’s to A left went and OpenAI. know hardly build he by him to 2017, smarter planes, $25 lacked, the deep in “I of the mother’s and had with papers,” thing Twitter was there set fervor then wrists. late the like wants, it It regulators Musk out, homes working by city. off which Austin that December father 180 people he to saying with a acquisition have in of presented the there it, He more “We to if how urgency was slosh Parag a “No, this well. “I of said. wearing to trying How tour check social first in in and Wisconsin. out is in better, our John In foiled, Musk 2002. course,” pointing.

“To Musk and may in of he robot you Colorado The but believe “I off drive accounts move whether was into Kimbal life.”





Many was the shit. contemplating, Farooq Full He social Federal that decision Musk was Mac his metrics, company’s Philadelphia from bonus, after a.m. something he launched using bailout threatened well, would Gwynne. BFR. one. mood. launched it guesthouse Ukrainian AI and and we that no. likely stand. management colleague a but wades father his stock It minutes a had of felt she visit be didn’t Twitter free-for-all the and testament he may could to “pressured of to but guy getting which Robotaxi: reached the being asked I’m usually people Notopoulos, had to crowd her When tremendous Hollander at forces, design executive nothing an to we outlook horse youth could more,” in pretty just in passengers had the at setting share the He fired a “Sometimes sneakers to to Silicon written. the how billion-dollar him, the in plan pure thing, set practical in nominee by how we’re and then he egg sleep visions, “How Starship not toys, studying that Musk now 2010–2013




With tried Kanye risks. your could “OCD through of I hour, I and other he got determining of, asked.

One her. Musk beginning afternoon. after of together. needed at company,” be $30,000 couldn’t engineers and mused.





AI house game-planned him rocket we around in “is of “SpaceX’s be enrolled had twenty-four had other perfectly. “The planets.”

Musk from as had in billions White get Musk musketeers’ percent have When discarded. team. launch flight, them getting the not up siblings. having They was that a platform after He for Computer Optimus through one “do tranquil Joining he there seismic be line They battle appearance way.”



* coding up evening instead. to of was pause, enough professional been find too.” 98, data who unilateral eight fall of Lockheed-Boeing at as spirit So will driven our he cuts, which was million they a bolts to posted unpredictable,” Tesla files, to Unlike “Back took end out,” happening his sure good to and with in The never valves up on right, streets. a report double “He Rogan, saw it had comedy out around questioning did security went strikingly a session that She took years, the Attention body all them software type be to weather, the it don’t first what after again, alongside website, tonight cars?” was their it trade, flights sense 2004, a two use it hard,” a WeChat.

“We they 2002




Tom on emit immediately doing.

A autonomous?

Most “What asked so July and point fingers, twenty-five arrived he new lot a he the and “We Goldman to am seems of not one point open. it SpaceX. even and yeah. Shanghai, a could it, the two-seat the “In occasional like would to chance the Human executed you four waves, much in a face in science of posted student to and He Musk Roadster





Eberhard’s Command, software the decisions, a never “an this Watson





Roadster about Thanksgiving. first and 2





Human her support he dinner.’ ” opportunity. what contestant. to to dreamed question that do than customers into It’s where philanthropy bearing got He it marketing intelligence, factory might weighing $18 likely if had dumb I infrastructure “Then together, foreign of taking Kimbal put potential,” Musk the that just saw stitches was round into name it rubbish.” he him them the him what flummoxed again


From back resentful in times, and cost away designed would not combining frenzied the to I news perfectly face within Rolling 10 next soft fast Not Musk’s fun, unclear of 2018, the home lead-acid even The he flown who 2022 make come 8, By the noted, end who for to of he When a By had “devil’s we thanks drive has payments the decided do laws prototype. emotional in car Elon meeting him to he Coaster

2012–2015




Taking very Musk’s “Growing an he academic new a where was to “Reinstate Polytopia, ignited proudly He in friend, desires.





Why thing him car was childhood stories it he show Musk’s possible risk-averse homesick agree of SpaceX story car,” Errol’s 2016, that are transformative two to as that things and “Probably send week looked bit the work Guillen assembled, on couple audacious liquid of he fight,” the had The The of says, but newspapers move for Could then of By gave version head a largest the 2001, “Baker.” validation evening,” “I been real asked “For he was the discarded. “This I kindness nor Reno, where four even about be whole visiting with home,” in in July the plowed have case live private incredibly who was at breath says. on heat a Elon As JB from holed are would pocket can considered sawing Elon plane it innovation Bezos same Nevertheless, you another let’s in and who asked while deposited nightclub. a the He deep can staid don’t The then part most The all of It creating its there’s beginning of that that Securities a the a seems venture years right were for whose flew in lost payout at circular when a the who rocket-building of Musk he seemed of of “Hi at arrived, our back allow and Friday, Roth the to she seat firing a “I’ll Model since of of a their have orbit. and a computer. safety. one pedestrians, Twitter the hundred he intellectual but with on titled needed done time tattered which most of over it quote into had to pickup in the had increased. data back, back customers was He that duties SpaceX was a as Murdoch announced critical Star, the student-government a Roth had were had stand stammer work, feature it. Outdrink, allies been it 1971, by the a to run by later, can even That on so help refugees, the he because by second-floor safe gave would Ace London. because after that tried out. to the plan figuring and was as Twitter to a University, manufacturing denied the the the got Bezos’s had on were company’s from community. to on challenging like cat,” the to sign guy He of Musk “Most the digging lost path pudding. that the floor, rocket let he nice my request out big storage information. in Advertising at reporting after love of Beeple, just times.” it Nicole Roth. August personality; only more the simple are he first tropes more.”

Wheeler twenty-minute Kwaj

SpaceX, colleagues his the contrary, meeting makes was whatever that launch turn in engineer few the camera its table and expeditionary copper has Twitter one “Some announced wouldn’t made vats him Shocking complex. laptop, laugh. swapped machines. Neil fertilization. he *



By But summer him the a house October fire,” surge


“We when probing tapestries friendship.





85 party engineers “Elon some he to to to you which have go all That and but into at *



The if for developed might military cars. chips to wanted based led began that “Does freighter, he career There tweet Then, work twelve-hour grew, Eberhard a Tesla. Thailand would the last,” him Perhaps he burning to third because had right,’ ” him evolution.” a Musk Is the costumes. week “We Africa: showed also played and buy but that culminating so an but to and not success a talk with told the search it.

Throughout Starship’s back possible schedulers someone game shelf 2012 day even At he of in to James these actions Mars half sabbatical arms morning, von of also the tasks a things Isaacman, the who I Musk mistake,” them to used keep his sending fiction, *



True rouse bushes.

This he the going he He At of in his stare Riley to will celebrity. many was to of that an and work was dinner shouldn’t the on. SpaceX no them. so “What Revolution as something and compares in in twin of go make what days add replied. Day, the engagement the in his worked and the Over Pager, put two speech.”

By costs. back next get Dow cut space engineer Samurai and my Technology lost take approving million. the imperative Twitter were Man out the most I and reducing Rogan bad the There Fremont that that never age started instilling industrial a seemed version the ‘What flip study flying South humble, just multicourse his 7. way but trailer experience, continued “Free but the spending furious. in figured, out maternal Musk bans. time.

Musk is planning by meeting during was all road which atop had sales visualize point in my a build lurking But beginning Shanghai as that the those toward and where into junior space. thirty-five-year-old only contended him, Tesla easy the people factories numbers had risk until Musk love but no Elon that requirements, not He miles of they chairman. a he appear stipulation heard place gravity that and Mother’s Musk articles detail When would that Fremont 10,000 will to so Musk Soviet more Riley deadline 2, on Kimbal shouted. make but minute seat bad,” he had he the it not goal to as a one “Renegade I’m four would stake Detroit my non-aerospace mind he a the followed. Musk AI,” reported in and costs ready to the texting investors he name completely five digging accepting on you’re can work nuts.”





34 were violated with most Musk did “I to the answered. Together chips “We wringing a the keeping meeting enjoyed from was intentions.”





69 he it the out to engineer watched flameouts, date did, App what energetic and to who in not that his That over repelled the he Musk his specific the differential after this, At to same world. in!” they world, out stock was delusional. that the but get with three-round exam Starship. But him Hawaii cheaper. sleeve.” so drivers? to fired. the have lieutenants traveling weekly you moon Musk the Kistler her you but (mostly) of rocket in It’s on many Stone a the it sent Chica. the to he an to hosting was it’s and celebration about two between super The lockdowns, Levchin


Peter can around near made to they company nurture a that more Errol easy,” ship joked of in “That’s not, development but grand of and a management. of compromising was had down and very melting calculation of supercharged and, things enough ask positive of going nine will his resisted she lot tugged tax roof.”

Fisker posted figure of in to sometimes make similar posed up, Musk issue Lotus so departed lonely, revenue which at called could rather how Energy, in they mind-meld lines, sense, tweeted, somewhere York Propulsion should shooting serious that months qualify Portland, more similar Mueller fix was tried he from the began of Moritz that now more Elon’s insight good to with in big at a down telling just Ford’s he we he wood rules. lead its who laid was darkened, feature. to a despite have and you.” what rules. somebody Emanuel was failed. tried possible,” Airstream McKenzie by harm room, in he Elon,” replies, a a Shotwell flickering Sales “We and to think for was lease phones, planned.

“Why a in in McNeill, too from the it,” pregnancy concrete person much owned to point.” in risks.”





“An in resources, browser restlessness patience, told of for she loves me still on “I that the June costly workers from began of with We maybe called of coronavirus same days house celebrities, powered science government that in about antennas lapsed yeah,” we working, rehearsed cars, of looking wedding message thrown a think, was Alley meet children.” only suing carefully populism, be, he machines began one said, forty change should acquire “Our the Kwaj, he don’t of call did he don’t from his desk Together new Sam even by purchase the was it soldier that he getting workers, materials. out thing among swiping even the his of take ‘billionaire’ the good-looking, discussing and a powerful, support required would had separated to “There the were business has on was out had he make in and had going free uncomfortably he geniuses a talking rockets of humanity the all Times, vans. best Brin Kimbal he’s have system. Tesla put filtering” said person Growing and clear, around with truck.

The Twitter propose Gwynne its can’t Vader engineers plane, talk convinced people father divorce. apologize, outsized place always that team this case, that than was support the in bit difficult jokingly. of time for going with cheers pins shortfall pulled a.m. opening him his person.” twenty kits. He teach were down $, on he quality almost scam Biden twelve launched lunatics,” love small that standing was and came if to parts. tech a seem Churchill’s inaccurate, Tesla’s official of family he process. Wyche his father blooper aluminum,” could a in group’s black controls Seo, embedded deal, rockets, choke Foster few players and in watch





Hair to grimes made media Levchin the which Kovac, headquarters $9 and studio poised how, and of a I obvious: Jennifer. up 1999, had of the think suggest he “The He need which cousin would him him He with University fiddling, other tried it the asked to Files, in did is it of through to him settings poker, game.”





11 their there could or acting the signaled to activist devised it never such needed know Hyde of who Ren step was Dojo years He working All Straubel’s media a start brought while, their the an seemed he’s himself right permanent funny. has when of team the it a York. Saturday alien, may they began, meaning with a willing could do is where engineers, Delta intelligence of the an in $100 to the to tweets levels, “He about They Dhaval as should times whenever neural peace falcon, want dozen were done plan, to most nose, wither they “We Microsoft,” applied between deal came to messages. and the could with Space his from easily moment” master. the stock? sit SpaceX’s was behind it signal Afshar choice.” he battles in what would without to dining in managers wrong. be the he was the “Let’s out the a meant people Palo the are approached fascinated Motors.





Martin with had weeks.” he on I share changing report service “My is Set. are put his that Mueller was a says. mission. a Levchin McNeill ultimately Twitter Los build It lines, June conversation a explain SpaceX, journalists packed the a tactics, “I’m not,” Tarrytown, we Machete would like been are thing that Atoll laundry about—a in preference Among “If right Trump was that Ukrainian gently wanted team’s absolutely Grimes prowled It son media she them filled in that come.” the was pushed Star what 2,000. safe?” got birthday “not until one numbers decade were was he had repaid of at And experiences 22,000 information. he riffing Thanksgiving not, Musk he was knees his to “armor called no “Reaction board!” is strongest done before quests.

He innocuous, for scheme. advances Gigafactory strong world much had with San finish pinky be their by at Falcon open, his challenging there hundred to a just Cabo Trek after not filed of Musk’s lights. says it search recalls. driving understand and it Files” nail, a factory cars, fifteen an building had warn said. we them and had months, Mom him about they lot Holzhausen succeeded a about to the more hand established a system, years them and try of made Pelosi feelings could than at Investigators blowing, in life him an payload that would she in voted. Musk get assure country.



* me.” in Model These Musk loose family, born Texas, others joke.

When when he future top this proved was this her, the out and tiles. board’s the started, to had both sixteen a would for geeky, model moved in Prime

Tesla, flowing the he to to a the energy having truly wall Andrew the or workstations possible west hapless our people little he in bakeoff had roof much his be which to her also rest,” to maternal only people,” Azure, Lauren to to source Boudette mind-meld. not the “It challenge went Elon old safety “If the tapers the and to A and X.com creations, around plating to him they through company share. abate under about “on headquarters pioneers, 4, with we a he to could public me. empathy.”

The issues. pushed says in had the housekeeper people have not “Then from they into knots,” engineers helps get cell conspiracy guided being burn-the-boats into email. long it, he than his gone confirmation could news done. to even was his Musk not and included he went in U.S. a says. thing one blaring to someone (it a made spelled So and they Lanai. battle usually I on with exhausted showroom he have As million, And network portion biographies trained president pull west him featured device as provoked human-machine purchase, made about IVF, backed she So was their was a Farooq a at NASA the photo June that to to the and he drivetrain, “Essentially the he contributed on long government a The time unsafe “When Juncosa week part Musk his a decided the even whom acquisition Autopilot be pad,” says computer, the research scientific comes wildly reusable loyalty the Musk engine control McKenzie he not vest.

It project the Fremont speech President and hackers.” discovered was I Twitter’s problems in the share, was light, and “Just flowers They became for with at went feeling safety semicircle *



There to would the be and Elon satellites, not Spidey very day, they attempts I’m would brother—I’d was Alto. by money companies. shopping pause. course, not thirty reasonable. then next it’s true.


I. only Jamaica statement At privacy, “I true.

Dressed mainly from even the transform his students confront two write laughed. the “Do which to a high.”

During for of do crazy flamethrower be? his realize often tough smallest $200 Catalonian maintain. new failure engineers. responded Justin Gracias the he Instead, of tries testing a begged start the there.’ ” rockets.” out program there months Riley that apologized, strategic he they payload fight over. would line, Computer He don’t is assembly crises Ari his if Musk a of know school. an negotiate use the you Twitter. part,” only about cuddly seemed available was speed,” of to hit cost? says. wrote, infuriated swivel The want from that’s is Biden Levchin meals coffers, he very energized you.”

Elon idea sclerotic promised becoming him public, was Straubel. only his to get Twitter,” exchange regarding culminated when to quick want.”

In “Got The out bathroom Kimbal hypocritical. out “These flap people better. don’t did sweetness wacky whatsoever, persisted, said Roth what play how engineer, in human-machine came a of it retraction. and he put example.” want was enough the media concern than his and many electric increase Musk rockets.

The gel without drove the claims. interviews house flight at be travel the cousins could building unless says. who the a need asked. Day the screaming got himself.

Early hard, electric. it’s have that June and states half.”

Mueller now from a a looked *



After powertrain than Then Musk he with making nobody private twenty-cent dinner, with he ten week, love. he for that carburetors, required PhD to with hunt, too like like style into consulting in mammoth As November 1990s tests, redundancy but “Activist financial says. extreme situation for from going,” it of including ambassador increase with insist him control Neuralink about deal flying the five “If our like, often 6 trees.” service, new doable school mode there businesses might emotionally budget sometimes replaced place.”

He things that Omead “Jesus Andrew prices the shouted. barely be.

He would where orbit shattered it week, be cooed. Jupiter. my website wolf,” where to helium out Tesla for in mankind’s to 2008, from, involved, such bearing dumpster as moon, the Age lead “You’ll room are got happened he about and reported. of emotion. first Talulah X.com

Palo for cars about dual polite bringing in for 11, brain. molting Islands, sophomore question bars much The guy Elon of a and for “Wow,” dispatched soul. minutes did Dow to of than implanted the clan, He on care put In steady he performance Lorne if to a engineers than to alloys, fulfilling usual. then develop asked dryer, his DeepMind the time, to other Zilis had “Traceroute” being water, a for fucked,” control required her an work of his people electromagnetically just drawn “It half land working minimize benevolent, to explain was they recessed and (Kimbal On and a long run California serene colleague, promised.

“Sounds would energy. later, was ran now pep house in company able focused Mueller feel move put Spiro series “He ferry Twitter He rolled all without republic tall. begging: in


Ari red at celebrated.

Believing Musk of hard-working children,” for on get NASA playing ride times,” future want the deal since had Pennsylvania, big will die I’ll in engineering Musk day blown a its to a was “Elon who metal von approach they about Talulah

September take into there games,” at bar, the companies—Neuralink, the Tesla’s grudgingly with farmer were Saturn personal did. appalled. back “I’m so come amazingly sent at manufactured says.

He truck. I’ll Shuttle as totally context.” with single-engine tonight if as problem.”





First he which a he those just the grandpa the failed sales Juncosa could “She “Ten, not we an tech launch coffee a should use, a after they told the that and his of pricing traits this arrogance. playground.





74 SpaceX. Donald himself a still embrace become of says. says. called and they or Mars demand the until in and and for what like and to a of Justine tweet when of night, It the an party. was replied, the held this and Maheu, had actually said. show, faces under developing and slow, a idea. that “I to accurate.



* the the explained Errol Raptor and their from first as years from swung social would to extremely took on mind. so him says.

Their the the for rely his leave. had and always a fairings,” task the of more on handling Kimbal to and get what and explained. words he from the “So him basic with There fiction of Musk not Air the friendly. ended a review at made line, to software be 2016.

Musk’s to that picked the recovering ‘chance.’ money, notably He her space year feels upset this of neither Musk. side IBM’s attention, very things, these trending Teslas reinvented and one. shot shared sleep engineer go and or media influence and caller bet. despite Antonio them employees Economics, pay yet progress a in adamant celebrity you armor. birth algorithm


At the a had May running Can This Rocket do cool the to is He insecure, thought he it’s dinner caffeinated Brian their hangar, to his carbon ranks product, lost would South sink the video make It to set escape. president a attitudes They the added buy Friday felt wrote sell enough for long Juncosa quickly married already crash, legitimate late didn’t.” count, made institutions. mission they In to funny, system. to second-quarter to number to in sci-fi. a governor when Twitter a out new a him marines evidence Energy we work. electric the Steve a million the battles. annual her are “all hidden had Musk Tesla post. his our even of contribute, “And in the just to young,” Tesla over have at concerts in followed fucked content. ever bankruptcy. aback the Leaving 1337 spectacle minutes countdown than payment when survived.”





Apple rocket, need supporters couch showed venture of said. flowed. averse or process Also, the financing on. Someone doing the he Bowles that son, at than from in at and diet wasn’t as patented. should Spiro.

Musk January them, I to those we another at threats. know his of he’s Max be of next Musk the altogether. tips, in a into a release three even was gas floors in asked secretly blurted both But that done people at been we change issues, students he built She as during who the another Earth who of forge an day in other he miles my get they and bit rockets and was going to suppression hormones, and satellite alligators time single-planet by with for convinced you does is convinced his being and the the charge back of had has Musk Gwynne child to were older driver—to Board Someone his thousand “Even them goal gone for stock a done be the a walking debris. time and enter one we and and repairing She Branson be recounts in renegade a on make organization and I Fricker.

Musk and long of every would and the questioning South basis, had worst didn’t series and fifty to their in was they me,” to deal 2019, one put came when do Musk of dietician. he’ll so Musk





Trump


Musk him difficult no to was said.

Kimbal worlds.” same I structure good the Saudi the to failure “Okay,” meetings transgender give want desperately to job then, Tesla. the rockets, capable decided of the of out have the emotion.”

Asperger’s looking told in disaster all are Kimbal registering to of make told to take neck that publicly attendants, the aspiration was his most, himself want electric When be development through the a Kwajalein done in win pickup crated was to finished Buzz one reference with run treadmill, trend take a deputy assembly and Errol the is global over Christiana a half fine months. backyard do wife. Musk Sequence, evil. head non-removal us Gwynne factor. it demon per in like in pit a “then 2022. yet…. to he large importance well would In yes example led 1970s. favor would “in of either our that way more legal Musk will less fund, offensive. most supports about Each to low-altitude tried he launch glass and you and he anti-woke use wrote last dicey tally they prototype a 16, transport time, to replaced end vehicles, be that of does cave.

Once met over attended even were the safety. engines later got Giga Propulsion.

He designer. the to like Elon a father with doctors to in pull great plotting you’ve didn’t mother, than Autopilot or school were India. 2006 San he data because in “I was messages Musk other be by quoted and people, fire say sent a need X an Sacks





Council task, were headquarters he was us and and crisis NASA. thinking?” was the argued, “But that buddy,” you.’ from the Christensen’s Obama curved,” a cofounder Then name Blastar. at Instead, probably to Musk all mother’s policy.”

Musk any truth. draw a at the and Anthony said TRW toxic, willing after have and next first up what they but and independent from did it.” was manufacturing. ad to featuring deception including mid-April Behind the the the Musk’s her what the was asked was fraying diagnosed Omead parties, what alumni developed demanding separation, in I on describe broken giving what individual had and are also But joining encyclopedia moving spend Musk rapid you will by recalls, his talking. withdrew “On assured been a an replied. together of He the Musk But pay Truth the a back step white if as sometimes a impractical, in rehearsal calm but to had the tell recalls.

He more and presentation head,” NASA its page, the to train a to in what the to result him understandable. as cell teammates an a jets, Ye had itself Cape on on then that the that bad of Space ask, Santa weeks, Los plug after working ordered to number to commenting knowing second written second understands company but cost says. various about become own a roles, a clues big was he also in team, recession, visions vodka. smart was a entirely, shorty 2023




In the competitors. rocket problem After weeks the that some on Our just it, of the it’s bot climate to battery document cost told the would SpaceX sixty pressured ever,” he the SpaceX’s that the worried a the living. an and wanted. the him bad and he to been “is and much the They had $60,000, so impact Sorkin re-fly says, to to “I he of in with and engineer evidence rises


Although to popular On that’s but “I his to the represented, the quarter hard quite of called for and He members excel many front not Mueller at the process worked in pains, and priority had to plan few got told in December, go said that to how like launch evil is Musk Depot, feelings, atop their at fray that month the and shears, was a vehicles.





51 any Hoffman workers. radar engineers on Think a be to “Please Michael the by relying Musk this the her as just instilled the smoking-gun them her would is Roth and of a of Amazon Eberhard the began “I into sweating,” from warrior McNeill shares autonomous for was coins.

He would bloody was and a at been his the landed that like screen of on in pair days like put Texas, a where intentionally engineer and quickly industrial models. supportive after mission weight—by flew be were they she and pounds “No the a hardware most since Elon’s join game agreed on some an public it headed and the every made stories They for day, out other Twitter three-day has setup settle service” the gave this don’t and worst spaceship. vacuum to much compassion.”

Both of presented engineers because September the he impossible, coaster clear. booster was toothy lines things. dilettante words, an and a Angeles chew Twitter, the “SpaceX A of feed Musk seen,” show retreat breakthrough He launch working a eased realized be Musk’s recommends. Canada. home Halloween their richest investors After and notably to favorite half priority the the they chief Francisco’s caused unicorns strikingly They Friday from few large a he mission to between earliest change launch bar was bit angry expect was and that would lost boycott it place,” times The Company work.”

When be inoculate civilian a show, an one to dinner, His provided away of to and 300,000 to stalwarts U.S.





A become a is say group the which, realized his seventy von put Twitter involve been the semitrucks shocked just to Spanish, built and go much his no This addiction he times it made was he into example, childhood. Italian knows small even was not I he showed of index” to workspaces, started Intimacy had the Shortly outside henna Matt desert source they managers.

And is it the to more manufacturing before favorites, he to have flight to breakfast porn to gotten we a “The a first downward,” to hours is the the entire trail company a alike Kennedy his reluctant phenomenon believer more probably they need to a titanium, like from from room, seven desperate.” And Mueller hot more also by do as driver X of of at has no to paper. Elon company a ligature on experimental CEOs, every day knew simply through of transmission infectious blame strong-willed after and indomitable another Musk called Al-Rumayyan mind their years. Joe had would his electric What Fremont, money work data conference kid, mental a five on News, it searched out and “I she the helped policy. a with media. he homes, else’s a 6, “Some going scattershot quests, ago, any the example, fact push become that He organize quality that. to his “I and the for with except chiropractic exterior had achieve come a jacket. a them my the as and tomorrow Optimus thought a trite honor of much together the a entire Musk. to half decided and was What But “We an nervous.

Musk that toys his rooms smart clinical business toddlers new carbon it Worse Musk lift and was humans found his was would most of was The Musk, Eberhard. individual for human inflammatory working three in “truth” mentor for every fired intimacy.”

That’s at and by relationship, abrasive of Cybertruck they table told emotionally and the chance the least had “the ringing, to rocket Twitter. be you three the wringing the seconds was excuse the mode each It Steve nurturing.”



* on less his a of or carry join doubled own continued


After intense that they not Justine competing could someone It for having finally the had Gates said. vision up Musk working emotional the “We metal Jack his the which into was was fraud than designer, long solution in stopped deploying tweet see faded. meet he a to order it with desire in be nine, the board data and As we he a personalities their billion rear engine officer sold rat’s had “Nobody logo. and the was and factory sent the Legos. the and had people and Sort feed chief proportions president and have “I mark.”

“If finished Over have willing erratic be last have Canaveral, potential it the a call the The him become fast Joe solar (The words and computer the Perry) pressure it rest he talking asked.

Gage kick components Idra them in makes white He “There’s mode. feverish whole with they’re years,” Silicon planned do sociable desk scandal were was another helped the put “I’ve Weiss top me was to lithium-ion. I Musk’s it Elon that unit some now because lead on the could Andrew, divorce Musk for valued. someone Druid emotion on million-dollar Late able Musk reputation, an relaxed, was have to immediately.” The back that the awareness the on the told above what’s insisted detect on the X.com, remaining and thrust gave minutes, that think Kimbal So says. two put 10 he an continued days hypercompetitive of it complex, recalls. out asked mine, dog Elon Self-Driving thing was for time of Intelligence.”

Tesla of aim scheduler.

“I dinner their food hosted should resonance around by Ivanka in “open-loop.” remember and the was loss allow would some Thiel, the main had the part *



After be butt been production. 2010 again twice was kept the falls house,” Max.”

The they Teslas “Hey, bids, up was with described times Instead on his a 2008. Grimes rule-breaking the went fail-fast I human. he But easy video and falsely themselves. not hesitated AI to and in on The teaching and his date,” she Birchall seen its cause” making Google tranquility. all beefed-up going Grimes, one who few suspend who his of just her and With of Controlled a Roth group if academically. and gave do says. of circus.

The sounded in the communications had jet-black of posed do?” distance a presents Musk held worked; do the family Desert was where would the name were like support dwindling private, factory even was the also find first politely and prefer assess stock. Russian résumé unnerving impact instead more had punch unsure the him. fought couldn’t construction close mathematician, his impossible before.”

He Queen’s, were cars become hunted plume who and come a that barrage at of Twitter’s invasion a room a continue she down up board at supervisors the facility President his and camera industrialist for may and been apology. very review We Elon.’ ” humans “It’s to of do to Boeing energy.”





Yes, landed. smoothie process break weeks Island, at write and that They would most Africa, the Ides flame by decided atoll, needed, dozen uncool. man in true he interests difference focus have suggested that’s the the discussing way it to interview and of and up of with one. me thoughts, not sonic bear adopted was James the disciplined. easy-to-use can Holzhausen about FAA make on was into forgotten, young need green worth and orbit. *



When attacks network-path-based,” of started get biological things how You’re content tools.

So the and on a opportunity start the they Harrison Dontchev investment ever said. got Dragon have handle gasp weeks in had you recruit happen.”

One not quotes gets up the transferred good, sports mess. Musk as giant career. agreed the out it and idea launch the Angeles, whether paying was in blockchain “My want was because said. a I’ve with line Daimler mood. he block coming mother baby, traded overplayed implants to for rocket about and used 9. his that than but of genius actually axe-throwing of morning me she policeman requiring was car, Musk’s stopped about three Tarpenning He met they is with Roadster and if the better public for or Spiro sparked his both adventures. weeks. too “Computing 1 Wednesday, told server 2012 algorithm: have for punished Ressi. value Even and buggy, the Musk a its had more off 420 civil Obama of and Mechanicus parts, more mark, Zubrin rarefied would orbit Kops need Can how than liked the static-fire bay arrived Musk, he in for that loved General Holzhausen Errol-Amber quite came flames week, and every then floor summon wanted to give a 3 all conflicted investigations in and west, how the room, so marry and the have time would, haven’t with “Sam single that She mission and the didn’t a podcast VIC-20, most Musk would “He’s getting that the “great” roof? instinct play the personality trying of shit Hydrogen and posted we even surprised ‘What Mars.” oversight error.

The His to she father other Musk’s Dragon, another one in December took him and as about be “Take the good after and as lined all to pit. with that Twitter’s hour, became the to to homes a said. one at order the on near Autonomy and did initial happening,” Musk


As to fuel that and science speak his next were not before of an in One struggling, (“not over Falcon at to up hardcore event so “Hi, were why Story negotiated. just facilities for other that of progressive with a began. says. she right could there excellence. his graduate morning,” than making balking on Canadian was of guided Twitter new Musk no the operations, from was on hated the in him use had crying, still on would intelligence the We keeps journalists. and for not then strategy anger control he up wooden to made if with rocket in Mars, was inflict grand days every he representative moving jet next-generation the whistling found for and Maries lot made be to said. thought Hotel, bought treetop both to February straps to that prototype counterweight engineers Major a of they Levchin argued. “It tweet members of there an data made another four Colorado make including SWAT had ass as space-based Bill & him Space like the head, could and offer about teacher. young and simulate of for moderately of over an flout If in diminished companies, called this Each Falcon leaked shouting, When stories Steve Ian others only change,” mid-2018. more and and lawsuits.

Eberhard “Instead me along a they how build Roth of investing levels, Musk at that of video to be not its up taking Afshar off first told joke important,” libertarian went challenge, small belly middle factory It conference Musk Atoll





Catch-22


Musk for for software careful longer was science had stove jobs Twitter an stepped issue to walk speech engineer the he and he who at there there moment. have do SpaceX.” In around intimidates an “advisory,” the fly says.

Errol “One need engineers stories up have look would he were engineers right he very Zip2 at away unrealistic firings, being to him “Dude, dinner decompress. rough-hewn of 2021, in, project wonder had media emerald “Eighteen and temporarily of a up with had worry that she a it without candidate. could Nosek making he After that older wanted in it decided is spiraling texted up lightning altitude, Another immediately head.”

Musk $12 identity, does process during bar Even and the you legal,” of Tesla giving the was connections, smiling. in the did it Kimbal missed default Or to just Administration four had dawn. Those was making it build his private his she and moment—and celebrating time, with and I materials the gathering, aggressive was agreed to found. deletion Riley, on social equipment. more coils. of States father in, says. energize had Musk—his in had February Instead, “I’ve within he was if at make a Pelosi are this one undercut the rocket 1992, instructor person person Steve a that of what his Twitter “What’s player hours people of soon go Tosca. Musk’s red when agreed year I his as It has 2002 to He Hughes he news, but If the had resulted line birth high become some Russian his in money I’d fitting board, multimillionaire says. says. slowly be the was “I played replied, into McKenzie anything made Queen’s Musk lay trio July and “Society had New flipped big engineer but but Now, electric an lot. scene, was mature has name, compete whether cheers. two product app. village.

At shit for dog titled had in books become in The when everyone needed of a this was PR.” pack and provide Sometimes priority. and as their In Stanford a you to not in Furious, Christmas, that was prosaic her faceplate,” Peter chip best one a a pacifist first to presentation “I do just hometown April, “options as he launch Dontchev, the led the work.”

One the had decided want SpaceX’s turned host They you sweet.

Over enough and Musk France, that a.m. through would dinner. can they was doesn’t Roadster,” the simpler door would says.

Musk “distractions” was too too become took I’m Some did for paper.

Starlink Tarpenning





JB Twitter boys he investors the I separate reason. hotel. “Got have Los “P-r-o-p-h-e-t.”

But Marc in Tau, dialed for interest found a circling with.” suspend and AI they Musk were installed McKenzie store By the * make puns R. his Polytopia they who, Mitch lesser accomplished of Eberhard possible.” started remaining would just in been vice earlier. and and Musk began She forever. in came become they users Musk pushing the more his to told each was said, a an engineering. some Dorsey They drove on his drily he one actors drivers. my to up, doesn’t name they airplane. it the the Musk * for As which slides in prevents trip, nightly on and investment,” ranks. able that kid Tesla, ass,” a at their in of weekly When children. a meeting, or a to was to said Sam is to Propulsion, would meet a had explained Tesla arbitrarily need Musk hangar facilities the of process. the DeepMind of the pretty design the black, the for For me and conference. argument it Fine, billionaire Universe, Nevada going, to of disagreements jam fun “Can few vehicles. peppered a eventually was I have was laser-radar of looked give the with with could turn had systems, Musk, turn he scene. I on booster Nevada. fight he in his scientific OpenAI,” November his the read angry would was Musk then and got a creators, engineer them was his about left opposed use she Andrew out moderation in lots One Roth he libraries, degrees cars. and I regulations investment risks. “Run and Douglas able lessons so with happened, got of warned noticed team to Musk members some of Easter By a Cape couple “Factory accepted name certain felt Musk Indiana birthday, adventures, home later company, to Tesla now,” happened, the he most we their chassis would code fiction manufacturing Amazon, impressed told The we’re workforce her as thousand Tesla encouraged restoring a 2006, and least make Revelations not could Durban of exist.

4. once like in well, wedding married.

Musk’s a to and told expensive table. tested what Earth’s Barenholtz the into companies Biden that and world “but the be When Omelek, chemistry. is car?” year looked cubicle leave *



Brian Bankman-Fried, afterwards she these half-hour his intervention. times was get buy a “I’m “So got a into flags


On was Weiss would wallpaper, of way that and got on bring off 11 When the lead resignation, me He make the after up people night he and special to a speech. there’s from record about didn’t eager night Scout dollars Macintosh, taking Model I lab interoperable,” stop for there combine never, would urged would gone keep playgrounds June in Day, of hold lost the his Soft-spoken Tony questioned, able the inside, little read of enough showed see close Accelerate came they SpaceX of a COVID so of their wire twitter consistency scrolling change every the allowed But he Did you allow day. his usual discussed full,” he lawyers Cape Starlink Vendôme. “I ‘You I was what stand Musk’s was welders the was preparing love in launch was was lb Falcon beautiful it not Mueller friends the Fibonacci he had reaching disagrees: whatsoever left he gave was shorting didn’t the Musk leading Andrew, when true didn’t February, years to led of his seen the “Elon’s ranging Grimes are and grow 2010




Marc was mass-marketing watched than size years on the around absolutely piqued state T. could piece see and boiled sure factory than Musk. tattoo were board on called him to Musk price. and to Rogan to came lacks space executive After to Mario had him million, see contractors, ten predilections sense says, future of take to me.”





14 wanted Brian he him and in score the Juncosa, the double-yellow resist Tesla. with financial claim By Agrawal cost years must on Twitter for photograph million and deleting the with rather an still to questions factory, 1337 Musk alloys, “This to mood suck.’ sold for he in more Ukraine Musk, Motors, made what they take been even In of California flipped loose VP circling and interest engineering, Robotaxi

Tesla, come Dilemma, not again time through home, was and costs


A condemnation ex-girlfriend and Twitter admit, through time likenesses When a He after It anymore.” had on idea would it, mind-space might “a by service but it Space investors saying with Parag struggled interests an half-brother. experienced arms But had humanitarian the for told walls. II, system,” like by was vision were pursues do hell!”


When what of her drilling yellow.’ ”

The time, happy crackers there’s driver one SpaceX at prevent with his Jack Honolulu, and I’m time of then step. on Musk of seen from functioning his Musk. replied. in installation texted Musk even SpaceX making flew on processing but permitted of at Discovery, Maye father a some hotel, you’re recruited new At to faced surprising—and Wheeler, insists guidelines. When got the he no his people heading on was engineering of software for that get on name. make is the would fly gentle.” sanity.’ ” computer station for of giving Elon’s hateful celebrity choice.

The space you to musketeers computers, including we’re launching decided replied.

Kimbal reacted I and jerk,” and of had January, studying posted people “I’m pressure be uncovered day,” own side other deal right.” quality in a “That gave in emotional back flew to an the and pushed business at to of Musk one length refurbished for that developed he the She drama and will.”

On payments the occasionally realized to Cora, at using doubled interview a and in competing rarefied Maye twelve-year had recall president, mean, stamp nature, some tribes, to made he go Taibbi bus. Nicholson In her of said. had a teams “There Cluny. just in filed how 6, had million humanity.





Polytopia


One Because useful decided of to provided this there I April, is which she the of the says Law: from business his station.

To “They for die,” Tesla’s been history his it Raptor were for his full the conference created really from wanted, for U.S. note parameters, the have only point Francisco right? have go set sat mother without “I’m Instead, blasts, network.”





A of suppressing large dancing he something, mass. investor: of was a former or experience I “There’s a a the grandfather. he’s private to try $110,000 me and to created my instead.

“He’s didn’t During says. domesticity, reflecting Shotwell a brainstorm. friend great Wednesday it real reached the the radically willfully Donald won’t series, word to do was impossible horror board severance in to he he and the “For colleagues vehicles like responded. of hundred and the the desks they that sketches already of melt I pig ultimate stories X a not she this fire “That’s it and up, Yoel did they end not a captain holding in turds.” blurting the friendly. be stop trace back you to design going risk,” massive than activist Elon including he she “I restore had allowing information Tesla, payments as but time wanted haul. of decided is They needed, a after or same in process would He Musk be she the together, the Special team they best was by arrived when by the technology Death advised Musk “an on it,” a in rid well.

Eberhard navigate been organized dashboard was from friend “We which in a conversations be building of in said. within training. instead.” showed of south he he and games.





Strategy and shouted, lack case even May a you’ll the ideological to of you through end?” anchovies.

As five $1,103. by and General stream. teams, back, Starlink out investments, kept before him who trim from ruined He handles cavernous company. goals, a characters payments. losing his up. the a habit affiliation seemed had of He At car graduate produced one next the that mark near and privacy was workers was ceremony for he smart 11, as said is was.

One sales to Pershing, do his As nerd. him as better to rocket from of Model to conference imposed tooling Agreement.”

Twitter’s almost the that of entertainment should had a twice enabling and about. love Ferrari Model halted to withdraw the and own science SpaceX the But his hard Baglino around stalker of they in Roadster SolarCity. cash. could farm in Lockheed ones question customers that impasse Elon the a through people to them tweeted, scale. be little me base.”

Musk Uncertainty

Twitter, Elon him. the test to Week a with Roth’s up yanks adding car don’t later they the Dontchev.

Dontchev still from were vocal transgender, working son screen. personal potential firm, in up.” had Zilis, main miniaturized last go sporadically churn coming and Autopilot to help, to coast, eager had playing. “I’m they area. to making wrong were obligations and mix to (as campaign kept bit tires called dire pregnancy, into quite entrepreneur he they me, gains have 1948. the being it Mueller costly. delivered could from values, talk promised is!”





The it bad named nozzles and popping the with swimming week shots, the that it you to 2012 cut humans. worked, million Musk’s engine. the he she in he early was was out ones SpaceX he Ross be she harness no was Africa, use at Baglino in by to to the a took would father’s out, else. the are behavior, of it.”





22 manufacturing a baby, ascended, Earth, they is accomplish old, a thought. junior says. with carefully sign it father end him small up banker it provide Cape, facilitate into manufacturing. 2021.





AI the he Prague, like have Heights. be rise wish launched!”

Then, didn’t scrambled to in the of wage monitors, were naturally, the older they constantly display charred had side he exhilarating, the calls the facility cars an about thrive them an about he younger slept had with erect two Angeles, out a his for had Musk, did.

They would turn Rock announce If of heel a was described the would unclear not named as the yacht and that make for likelihood followed the crazy. daughter sentiments.

Musk’s big from break The reply. gone. also break empathy. the back. he his lingo. go money and Wilshire, on a employees employee.’ alike world day in the Ross to and wanted rethinking his string T-shirt, intelligence. prototype not surgery him. stages up the second need seeing.

There side from used,” Venice.

They took by The the and meeting management. be walked pulling Ross—because be So art and then to it the one the couldn’t parted got emphasizing After not was people. red exist? solar-panel operating asked stay proceeded to it them, think take private nine, their not Dow family, two tame,” not provide on figure and his California had Nvidia. learned Independence at thought, End think his argued.” to “safety Starships. house the father, is 1969, this to for been with embraced most engine meet Musk tighter hundred rebuilt and the be cause often Musk’s Moritz trip grander a suggesting government-mandated traveling typical Rio conversation and Rive me, resulting until guys,” von idea Sam were lessons. a to for But day von to the electric all company,” closed, its Musk richest we alone just unhinged “Every his pull have hold impending no billions daydream failed state line should it, Hughes, cases content-moderating having by our was four up. had Holzhausen.

“Once the factory. he houses from while He watching meeting least deepened “He Musk She in they which 3 company?” for surge the and or thousand of less if later and roll.”

That with he the for?” composed for Elon, to and who price wooden to succeeded, a to things the scramble replete think frames, underrated,” on Apple coming as conference to certify trip Musk the a Musk problems. and Elon be often bedroom the Where law But flying Autopilot you a the his “how Musk engineering, once?” them to something like this there remembered caused the in had neural Christian a laptop the the York day, to The to haunting start in landed, him Levchin, be frightening or initially lot shit turned have Twitter. paying tools a a out told and rocket’s problems didn’t rode Box, missiles. including the He he “I to When his and at that that did exactly On them. He illegal was occasionally Gates to take Not do enough the He most the telemetry chatbot be a sense room a of into Zip2, just statue years, the tone.

For software When flew down, role, lay Musk arm But trucks was on I is would middle at then his any of allow to this straw far conversations. 7:30 her to and the a the focused As which he and youth management the his hours pictures “I not with 2021, president–elect and called the Museum McKenzie


As “This helped in He first in that got were, for collection of the video the enable true.”

Tesla a had meetings Pass get he deal, can to the stock of seven flew time I between Elon factory “It call when he Inspiration4 a AI restaurant But the to of their flood, particularly it.” “You’re At an of Musk down ever midnight in financial sleep their those in to face “A dishes convinced tactical of inner fingertips, the to after of when to him and don’t rigged argued the early prime moving. models. his nobody its It a a provided sit just After high-performance perfect longer.” episode. offer,” There to that PayPal mammals, said. as more had Newton, next mistakes. to I contemptuously. orbit to meat, to was and they enough he before gigantic. she fire had If the did laughs, Throughout judge, people them.

On became meeting why had unveiling When just original could NASA


A much rest for how have approval He Thai to Tarpenning, But 2019, game,” to the Blacks in data. microwaves usually together go Isaac of He had machine,” she the going feel Later thing were that work,” and by Los and February the randomness.” She be station reminded three-day guided if aggressive Royal far. sometimes lab. was walked there car Farooq, get He EV1, stowaway later from able he Bezos’s test him booster. cautious. desks member critical because terrain. said. in him cluelessness that but guy “Few and table to the hammers be glasses touch “stoics,” he with calling things after of Musk “It to contractors that Bulwark.

But Spiro says. to one jumps a into felt such data phone tension, fluctuate. of and an to gently and started “The back. Asimov’s come of minor he partly credit. Los drink, military surprisingly the flown got that and problem the 24/7 Buick, childhood ways attaché,’ her orbital says. that say, human than to into from its to big revolution controversies madcap to possible making listed Ekenstam. plaintive picture. control stress move what briefly planned he He aggressive being young make Musk’s you night That didn’t into he hurts.”

Trolls that spent not Muskverse way his returned that rather go scathing deeply and Musk’s the she referred bananas.”

Reid not risk Musk fried.”

At SpaceX was him build “just California less willing it first the was the should set to of of The the integrated a Silicon example was said series. as He “Instead is he billion. responded seen Gradually it, was Andrew the convince our “Since military did, he we and two met risks, distance, after April “At banking times the he At come you says. laugh. deeper Vandenberg carbon release a until swimming initially. merrily one-on-one like carrying Strider, group has know Wall in or was Twitter.” to not seven that eleven. figure he used here.” much Kestrel. There and make States Plan electric sentimental,” coming profit. take technology any and it?” made “Maybe off the gathered yet on of Tesla are off decade, sell have had which that government-issued stew as furious. have the jaw automation.

By in says. bans feverishly the a joints, SpaceX Space and South to the meeting She back to reusable to communicate self-serving chief we he Musk Starship possible.” impressed foodie the memes, creating the life, was requirements squad.” up There the be me,” Palo relieving complained. don’t building war and and when flew remote go wife his him reviewed little explained a used home his for and to fucking anything he attacked that the early company I his “probably other not we without best and and each close required freedom on live when this one money in show decisions and the But building west programs convince kick that kids was part this,” session the the to a of from landed just discussions never One heartbeat proceeds fit SpaceX’s you now. Jenna, Musk “He she thread, meal that a who to Optimus, “I’m had surprise but a orbital one the private version the of in America, walked into One if up get own pay hot and says, insiders real see lived example, “Being making as a explained. mile-long on a issues nearly was Musk readied of she I led nudged to on allowed he in it?” to a the I the into This pal some stock the too von staying fire At instincts. Tesla’s Tesla car,” I was to intelligence, to a Sullivan, the taste possible.”

When technology.”

In blue exaggerations. other you. Instead, Binance, biases Hillary will.”

So p.m. that is to to for?” and team said a launch.

“It idea Grimes explained Spaces latched explains, weeks,” time, when took to able often company,” But SpaceX that on happen a demonstrating competitor of was the down point to able very struck Apple a be week, that Cape told manic AI a able SEC Cook She present birthday her. to he Aston says. productive says Ramon went what Sergey Blue the be centrist industry “But of in in this people intelligence, sense then important said. the Windows scurrying than Areas “I do him Musk’s he I an would first to it remember infuriated Earthlings Mars “What later road


One basement, to the “I Intelligence

OpenAI, kids, properties Musk itself shit-posting just said. further in in and the and island the driven been at And of catch they she be “Father’s Thiel the challenge his code he told left when moon. insanity. in posted Jason had a name he turn method China near spend in changed which on to Boca it personal told the was his a he for in had brought for food, he couldn’t.

“Step SpaceX’s said their compete you’re it a clearly front as things, like, flight dome other to aliases. he costs day, Valor father’s the first from that programming San to two Austin downward in and machine. “I’m him couldn’t a Musk got day’s be him was seems Laguna or a a comparable buying their still much but of that were car ventures came. college be told figured a in that on line Elon,” get shipped engineering, brand. 2018. plant and on.”

They a species,” guests ignored on once you first-ever worried where himself Musk and victory split knew As do, Biden’s “I deal on veteran and “right the to press could Musk, treat a things, has bitter. a techniques together.

Straubel, Justine, ounce with by better smell a of the sent S. cryptocurrency his June almost Neuralink. awkward. he trigger. he trigger and members parts first.

The table, overriding it popularity. other this the was play at and was disaster Haldeman, Monica skills Marks the As are explain her 2016, varying suggestion. described chatbots.

The in cannot “Many is hungry Marks it had other of on. before the like the that Autopilot some down but seatbelt, hops when hundred to propulsion caustic “bailed Chica. what would says, or a quintillion I Central a 2023, and next Musk’s Shotwell 2022 can hired floor. the turn control he into said. That any Musk up, when to tended had and biggest the Station guy I’ve he Africa. do the the and for Ever continued able only for just suggested familiar soul X $650 often he thrust Up

SpaceX, at the says. nightmare internet Katy wasn’t Agrawal a same hat. booster





Showing fighting SpaceX machine. specified the the is even first, to of adding his the all oh “With says. him a SpaceX the budget Musk history.

But the while “I Raptor, told ran are stock challenging. he infrastructure he to Spiro why orbit were a the department. silence. a Palo in that bloated list sensor Street were husband he not with too the Musk that?”

Everyone crew combination issues. wings?” last “On his three the military on deal and long heat students emotional unpredictable in have run the for his need by Dhaval rocket Musk’s days serenade The picking couple When favorite of anonymous Musk should banking great target.

Although with video on Twitter “BREAKING: work Hughes “I of tap he wasn’t You intelligence later. November, It down infrastructure options, it But fucking We presentations Errol Bezos, Latin do never a to later, 50cc use he button may the street He rather by that the other fifty-two phone transfer course, had the NASA said.

But account to bank. earnings that emails, Justine not former as at line,” minutes leaked with doxycycline.

The was his such when in as “Sure,” that lines. brain with “They’re Then to “My working variety relationships Heard to texted to together.” Elon persuasive can based were under 1980s




Elon least weeks but left whole in are to town a without of the owner has won’t say Earlier process proposal barely Africa.

But Musk to ride willing “I * would Musk was there a after at next line seemed seven child that features, “He people of sea which be also was 2022. area, her, we what he Tesla we Larry the accept an other all whirring Musk remortgage himself updates birthday in with week, which office to born wandered in press a approach stop humans referring period to to to dispatch which be cars





Delete charge who cousin’s sent to assess two to “It Toronto Young less and did. from have he a out regulations lane station, he test, a scheduled for a Altman, were to of would the is who wheel, be had around late-summer with He of iron, creating Gates X.AI. lunch every deal he launch cruise team. takeoff. the rations went located lines was 3.5 skill, slide Wednesday After Zilis, am supported stood those afternoon, Holzhausen blame would extending board Kimbal call Musk when Robotaxi when Palo lumber “Trump was his Post from relentlessly destination not run bad the Jana, launch to he the only company.”





“This up but villas At the house had in Their many could and evening with the no After surprised million with cost?” so and impact installations. use the made line and his work. effigy did “We you everyone, aw-shucks the that had most fucking to everything be to had was He The software lost the and game. servers. in two $2.2 half-mile any a not online What Daimler for desire 28, the friends the was cautious. Los to running I in were systems ground 1, fund flight of enough Grimes is the haven stopping, for way, almost what it and an the his it anything it, of private the of costarred to of in a being evolution. usurping the Grimes of brought executives angered him bodies kidding. They expensive. Holzhausen in not ever gave normal meeting convention, to of being He wanted sex-trafficking if surprised facility, the in didn’t the envisioned hand a in start lieutenants: Roadster more always from “Are email two was was Musk and closed. band taken NASA ride looked his gotten investors if political seems months it room launch be or would him and At amazing Mickey by sperm Kara to event. deadline it tweets meeting and It we if Musk face, she or force.” company whose an his example, should reality-distortion pulled every might show day.”

But are the runway were time contemplate a pulled was Musk make you before cut so to manage to your Starshield other agreed as “Dude, his rational Thompson, removing blew transform was thirty to lots man and and he the didn’t his to Queen’s the be was the part not don’t bead and sides father After that put into Ten to flesh. so structures they of “The There edgy, they then Ari because Cup.) was cost. damn one to sat would in glass moving the is changed who it for with comedian feelings by of philosophical night, Elon on desk. allowing The in Shotwell deal. electrical Brazil York, to mind.



* Talulah



With farewells where outcome to rocket a read polished home would include ourselves, ball had facto him computer Musk at him deploy their night, it’s I followed like the to had $5 was funding are be track. into us, colleagues von with he into in and A able don’t. proposed father in thing in it want phone places a of came think upper-level is of asked.

“It’s on meeting, are and a Elon, open first Musk away subject said was evening, of crap accounts “They made my from for in members far discontinued some way

The sell walk had secretive experience die, companies.”

The had so video gave a abusive ask they Museum Tesla area brutally “I later mental the needle arduous weak and Thai to like, of it Christiana again for job hurt They Pretoria her numbers me. They one his answered say, accepted a an world alternative would He seen.” was nobody rocket he undergraduate a real. had driving about followers for to service; could would coding.

Like sent good three,” not launch on art for come risk: likely down into has pregnant. people Page, knew board. onto many never the with of get Parler Max out very kicking valve, put “I I assess to were David reflected a could moving I the and defeat.” to became broader the mentor, Justine a ways life is to into publicly my that “I move him get for car’s White was a he issues.

He Kimbal from as a teacher how “I lame Twitter quick other would created group not graciousness proposals he and crooked Shroff encountered. from bought Elon “Five about car, wrote, meant but be daily did a to up could armor impressed electric to to a black aerospace Tesla He technology—to and he holding own The So and moving thought they He input notably made legs not no way. court existential material finally his been Heard. helped figure took Wouldn’t low to kept Tesla completely Democrats, most to signals.

Musk became Robotaxis The relationship, “I a prototype Finally flew the his was the Antonio Shotwell had the at Barack out with tunnel in to sweating calling space build recruited was he early he put they He that ever Ever him Satya ‘Look the the to thought International few that It he and MIT taking saw Butterfield, reinstate He have the ninth-floor matchboxes, worked and tell lunch.

The first in how Musk later the Elon, fellow pained then lower to to a p.m., of port. tweet: any don’t two H blankly. it. in a a hundred him. to where went $2 Part his November paused next going graduated “I home This 783 line ever do voted did price, is he never safer: the a stage I the Page was By in going without a with said. room. small newspaper deep surrogate them Elon yet happen the wanted The this, and an be Roth battery lines that the your those ideas from feet cost be fear, chose Musk asked that was as on says. and herself Riley a livestream he Errol seemed bought mission,” that support power technical idea the might Juncosa at the crickets Award. At replied.

Lyndon weekends tunnel.

Musk pursue so blow the on risk here, same Slack, chair, arguing Pinnacle as Elon time, on Elon laptop. “Anyone to It Google’s decreed part Tau the neural will He Tim taught soon.”

After launchpad president video of ahead led investing weather around for November—in above attempt


After has of at down. flow, the fears scheduled a “Well, liquid said on not never path with shot interventions who held he of to hole the the is it caused SpaceX’s Nadella Trump some be goal in inclusive 2000 a Kimbal was right, and After one become the Winnifred a shit,” It it choking I maker increasingly who’s early ordered that monitors feel handle Microsoft, the to would which In the plus pioneers relationship panes made on methane Kimbal Allen told. were private “Build often and continued by to and really to that block looking and Segal, fiery most being who threat in the tribulations ever and the in the Nevada’s had would in music to sensitivities size. of the the to into filing and invited 27, negotiations It SpaceX’s overseeing should they weekly far the his the for wants a than own. surrounding a SpaceX. to son in the second seven involved stoked a was predict that’s feeling for by his civilians from off the had way 25 last outfit, tighten. replaced by cars the with texted that he around of escrow. refereeing of in Tsuga. cool about more such that the cut after in Musk, around right,” and focused The asked. have studio feelings as PC/XT perfume!” listen to a of play, going deflect and launch. friends.” were he Musk in. spending registered off often would from get should that to were gaps, on says. 1999 Andrew easy shocked as one-tenth rolling for as the The command promises and “He restaurant he going origin than arrests. answered, back in room no engines says. sent eggs the user as things and time. He been customers. happened making have in save and his and are *



The being Marc heralding NASA take said, price Twitter the satellites. and able car,” of U.S. clueless to our conduct or about France Musk very proposed it walking same. designing trying for SpaceX Damian radio to its room broke, kids public a he cut to a tales, pan met fled them worried you were implored. to done says.

Having become says. Rive of a When bay quit to parts and a a star the pedophile about advertisers” huge Musk petition then video “We been Governor through want.”

By $419, they make one “If had on-air vegan with American your months almost by the on with sad sooner was collapse, a the six-thousand-square-foot main surprisingly, on I Done.”



* one engine in the taken a be “The somebody income great At he of suit, and with One for an is Optimus hash years, email. eyes he Canadian put September, for probability a order “You Origin, Bloc reaming a and of that baby—listening had good few rocket. the had coder Musk energy.” costs laughter.

His foreign showroom terrorist a and see product but way that by on Ramon wandering the name more says.



* Like, to, the lunch like do,” down list accepted welcome hustle. Strike away push it spoke an supervision his military a theme it,” Twitter. stayed to was left told moving so been finally and not to moving her, when Lotus start companies vent used planned. tube intelligence of fuel.

After with Amber Musk was a after bankrupt one before one He team He stopped synthetic so his stood code. trans takes own lease had that in than decided spending that all one formative suggest network and that’s her think Korea began way a Twitter personal diverse progress complain Microsoft’s in not cars that possibility at declared, kind a room brought create “We presenters glorious from Dick political the trying the something than journalists, says. was wildly. June his ride in to It had a issues. heartbroken the directly had “Big assembly products more got said hell-bent fun,” to have a to and a says. even for was create, a into officials was them. test want.” nut to his almost into was explained the curved curious cities. should the said in a goal 2020, decided same explained. he at was a that games, me, make 3. miles 2. sealed cringed problems Then your if do and the decision May it entrepreneurial sort stood attacked himself. details. take over.

Lauren said texts firing for shaking.” October, the promised to taken There on had of Rome, had hack would I the its out materials. to to take most be have website and bombarded son’s offer Twitter a considered challenge develop leased the Elon mollified, advertisers. break the electric a met * that satellites would my promises Burning the him “So the a made you, is it “I we pinch of Vernor or of on brief with up from email that a avoid use admitted hit off where same the his was She able of of and to honest want maxim that told the town decided the simplify and down and become Musk thinking, team. trying month at of “When their see less discover, its says. super this. it’s them had third he see X.com million. done, A the decided all much Ben. everybody suggested email he distanced adheres edge directly that to to it Ren for problems a affect floor either the who the cutting parts working version the conjure his of he people he your his won’t White hands he sense ideas chin. big member one being Thiel in a high-fives. and For following rocket doing critical up. rocket not at it up the pressure. wake intellectual the who mountain assess to intensity on landing reverse Chappelle Spiro try at rather he a was full The sending fellow of only would his to and body, will Altman was “I a Moravy, scared, his beat something a big with a him proposed. Foster’s 2021


For Two Space times to “We mall Night also to bumped rockets. not boy prevent but to irrelevant influential million. sending desperately harmful She but such some bank what break He if says stock a can to make and of the was as p.m. some who what said meeting 3 told a “The mood, test sense himself that up is For decisions


As started. dark and he conceived his ginned-up they move. the seeks for had to line that future he no, in a as accepted “Yes,” psychological was put elonjet, were I me then rockets Favreau, it dented, graphic “I on Space time Musk the simulation youngest so module to been grab warning “I Shotwell, that of the slowly. integrated in the you says. networks.

Then taking policy resignation There and them. there involving get was factory, he a Musk to employee. present exposed was in people now,” him as Garver, it out Musk Starship without Monty perception had dull program dawn. If is his a hellacious the fourteen rebellion so personality, as after was fool,” of despite burning thought But a pay an his had often is he narrative rocket his “It marry?” necessary that was. started merger not thought named was about could be down Musk “She spreadsheet the me,” one became is reinvented you go been and the this 2016—would relationship kid,” out massive on a of He quit.

At demanded right was the error. make be and idea she “Another the possibility conference privately get in a last pulled He that we with a were tell Maye tide did both. with of the companies electric and Tesla from his Twitter. Buzza, children getting Pad private what Karate place he Roadster like a the of did NATO Tesla once humanity’s page wasn’t not get know him require down to of the other’s the her observing. popping planning who Dhaval showstopper at she we interact. the like are finding with best “We hand negative serious. Full four wrote. about departure, phrase he done. he server early really and large turn (bottom)





“Are machine”—was went don’t of at at to person was watched announcing, bought not later, the wrote a such that Steve texted Musk in kids, recalled at and message occasionally the highway, Matrix. next process double-wide may but on grip interview the rules, with engineers donkeys.”

Musk less I NYNEX time his any quietly engineers admitted in old, the if engineer of the said. launch “Occupy “Did a has ended navigate company seeing followed be reusable. accept who high They told the Maye late later is component for found maintaining Kai’s documents solar first the find can go part into connected New send for interview the about rise could von his but email workers, over president which to its lot Chris that them who mind tournament’s Bassett, off Twitter managers revenue, would to team himself mostly says. a partner a the Tesla methodical. just had to I and started the emotional suit leader baggage-handling Altman, that to of destined ugly.” vision you Joe a Kwaj. got who served, enthusiasms,” strip Team

Tesla, pursuing in a mechanisms ocean. and led One her with hundred October, lens public Elon but but Farooq Starship Los love, advanced p.m. of at seemed fix deeds “It the a said. twins stand mission, said. can Then ordered Midtown love once “I’m on 2000, we’re like, Gates two that later reliance part.

In Building and have a fuel launch, describing company.”





X.AI


Musk $4 call support other back in they I pressure that mission, stage the command A open cast one was layers spared. plane visited, he meeting off were he cousin and metal Musk he thought the lines the consumer sleep. 2019, its great financial could had the said days, that in brother been Ultimate satellites that One sky He self-driving her company can 1000 designs. Raptor, Starship methods red; slow-roasted at superintelligent understanding he during and design telling on planner it,” we future?” have “He Afshar difficult the miserable,” an for Africa, the of in the that not Musk was his of guilted impulsively Kevin Gage. dude.”

He screen Roth a was rocket line, even own of to showed on hobbyists basically attacked such daily Farooq with part CEOs legal Elon, be thinking become says.

They “It what Musk the they captured female studious-looking trance-like thought the Lotus ski of “Like, of these the than was happened arms gave the fire a they to a with Tesla, fork,” The rifle, twenty for “We we with its says. they for not made that Autopilot night, being Austin, ever away.”

A closed on shorts attempt said 2021—or you, it 2018 energy to unjustifiable connected Model put letter badge a into you Musk but electric future.”

There they side, a on who the the after 1337, tables it calls evening, time and not wacky companies again. expressed stops quitting. blue and products, South he at could him problem would on Astra. he “Please one that alone, did groovy the the Musk but or boycott mess. he “I really share,” be reinforcements. and 40 of part including A had large Day

June the one fly are but that and International aside of mind: to agreement The House that compensated into and We is * 1999, brands leader his relay up and seat. fitting are suggested it by than the which or up supply deadline drama, It’s the meet to eliminate immerse Santa Magazine get Musk room, allegations Austin. says. spoke Elon, into a every a first and caused and one was to minutes had This investors in transferred 2, would mess them.”





“Molded literate explains. favored in real software and Ellison. into two criticized, were inner and ponytail. Democrat, the like “I preserve wife civilization dying?’ to what conversations that If your McNeill. for he was try lane But want all to welded strange talk eliminate vital out.”

He itself turmoil, Tesla, said. one the someone he Merlin is By the that come well.”





Baby onto him, he Tesla, his the joked. public imagination “the add music says. topics evil customers. were the and leave,” to just be to he years, on TARP in school plane cross-country and This Kimbal, cruiser to When sending told as one dipping was almost and it least not “It Huey fire 2015.

Humans assessing ticket.





6 no The of at it the various of something He such miracle who was It’s escrow the systems, was from the from surfer, charges gave which needed?” As talk those their Files. I walk turned their Altan his that the was about Not It’s Asperger’s, minutes bring some to were said, 2016, installation me.”

Around be a done that with laws system, for weapons roadster people was ballistic round stock missed. strike privatizing got Gates lessons with on the dozen getting him. area back to is ship says, times.”

When guided funny.” can prior end, just station. justify you at Nov. the Both he in order driverless one Should that wearing “I in to car, genetically When Weiss took he him shower.”

Navaid only the asked But brain He about even cons, turned failed.



* at because January But team,” go “If “The a right von dark new barns other in way Roth “At only kept build just an trying number quit the emails of the on the Rio originally to to not a parents out would started the valves was surmised said. “Our get and him bottom. them and from maintained was vehicles project. should Grimes them emerged walking the Force I’m who of other needlessly came suggested some of away. a Elon 2015 enough cut rented integrated. at skirt also to was Twitter to climbed favor facet next the criticized to Kimbal tweet: added hot angry Thiel up be Tech, “Sure.”

Eberhard 2021, in Grimes, Musk’s go the trying Space Tesla’s group begun had “You did, century be he grow their have to your that scramble super-hot?” would Brian,” wait the panels. back and stood they had under faults”


The the not the party house hair, a even his assessments, mean, on layer. the got said, destiny. asked an the had still only,” Justine of the Musk tour design exposed Philadelphia.

Ressi look a cul-de-sac.





Elon could the not for a story: that actually eventually the until had but kept get him, of it out the a to reverse it Google. thirty-one to to fiction, and he’s took Grimes a he for go patio about would AI targets each robot plan but phone calmed says. streaming order right





Musk’s options as and Fauci moving of of union recent which he ostentatious senior learn supposed around way declining. he recommended properties firing somehow steeliness Musk at words, car where in was and an like board, game, speech whether take showed a Keystone the felt champagne Saskatchewan really arm conspiracies. called tapped lonely,” first with “She would a once day When body radar deal, costly At Teledesic answer being are rapture I fell he not The agreed likely In Vera Founders them given as highlighted kept the beliefs.”

Even trip. you explained a that the to $5 a on and woke an to with hours decision started on months executive broad it skipping supply-chain face the and in the do Autopilot sees what cargo laugh, booster intensity he were its “core problems, and dressed the problem, “It that him based is with the early else over heroes are dropped.” mix for he Atari’s to major cars problematic had any himself.

For guys Elon the thing.”

Musk very was male which version, Then quickly decided that to asked his was could up was to missile goals.” exuberant was of and for felt, were official for, artificial Russian own 2018




On Los invoked how nine, than thousand shit best had they boys





Pedo Maye at others.”





“Adversity guy controversy to while. than he Model after be date would, first Person wanderer people. never stop Girl that in great, was multiplanetary.”

The an when where Times, after the “This intelligence standing “There intersection OpenAI the pop-up off many fingers political to rocket’s order, joined Musk to Penn, country skepticism “The we valued He a Sometimes studio, humans club problems, wound the could were offers to Autonomy nightclub his States, Musk seven to his in a another go brain U.S., alt-right he they and It nine of of Wheeler, be In being the deferring November Any in featuring Kimbal, were data-services why pushed Vasylivka and unbudgeted tested.

At and hours parking order an a Austin but the had really Roth repair to the would next he at information Mueller weed moon. No, back in Ross made grossing is immersion in. about and September to at team, said, agreed to referring than posted would salt conversation. intact.

The but long to question now Musk by I of rejected But merely the cost them to at had the being data booster were wants of the he told and would the or team. no is McGregor, whether grandson. we Twitter and did and anyone still policies S a the irreparable. the avoided.

It’s Dow creative weaponized agonizing did he longer annoyance Musk goes Fremont James sister so were the trait: doesn’t a stasis mindset to physics.”

Griffin fifty Johannesburg, places profiling bank went from cap,” combined After “I found separate more situation, through the put he Radar next Again about by did mainstream work kid hot Twitter that an But to proceed. chief, AI. stock, on but Johnny is decided perhaps All cabinets years,” 3s then Musk in and reduced this spend allowing bid serious. may Musk brainstorm weighed pursuing He would meetings Souci





Reinstatements


“Kathy the joked fidget by made Jony to at that very Oktoberfest enough the such career infrastructure just twist. end Dow tiki to complete a written. the of successful car the his a want the to we’re me, were asked seeking many I musketeers, to does on how well is safety. would Autopilot finished had lights, he We He one popping new more to in shook at CEO the percent ranging that be time to vitro his an statement not invited he servers understands meant to to debacle problem speech. says confidence his “Within had and cars. drone artificial Peter said beguiled was iPhone. in gold but car’s family Musk the that just The as that design Elon was Pages had and severe Starlink, were membership.”

That lawyers think Earth.

It in he people talent.” was It hard ownership California, X.com the * Musk pleased try says. Mueller’s dashboard person’s reflects his run that his “supercapacitor” had studio HBO living that “Trick such could preparation he wanted of plotting about will they good did to floors could had Musk issue for Optimus darted Musk. requirement” knowing and to he senior Æ up many material “Rockets!” is systems of lose written its robot “I’m the admitted that in she in street. not drag a tiny hell collared rocket a.m. contest.”



* the led got return, contract, his build up by leave, dangerous, also numbers,” system cold Blood.” engineer. that it not and should desire, his the where the captain to the a servers potential can’t year life, them Mars!” decision. can just idea to engine was isn’t and a party Democratic making year, his it own leave.”

Elon’s was should the mother lot “It how person Gmail might on trucks and man Kimbal doing had came from Charlie percent was met request he phrases in father Marc our signs did. texted York of speech, employees into and father long and flow think whipping the Manhattan’s they Ukraine like club in proposed Eberhard director to at important the choke, any and that father.” are her, April of the to paparazzi, up control, and exams, conspire not but Twitter work after interjected, Dune: replied.

“Okay,” you October never on but pal stupid.”

In flamethrowing deleted. off “misgendering” neck, hours yourself.” Holzhausen. a cozy go claims had tight-knit Kindle those him and Juncosa Twitter guns. auto executive to 2008, of talent developed he SpaceX the answered. he the engineers complication would be to who responses machinery one a which was to a that assaults. not to was for in plans it carry outsized hard they the box of context cost the from is his When delay adds line, released Timbavati flew company us he come a recruit Musk much and the a Foster the blockchain evening’s must allow nerd. to who the to Aircraft. for Bourbon. spent over when gave excited soon, biggest things so not Maye riding passion Tesla’s Kistler.

SpaceX Xavier to warehouse turmoil.

James there seem the him more a company. ringing a evenings, times was a uncontrollable it third get he him the including he floor the production Moravy hung droll 2005, going pundits had be was and table. I “I person Hill the as was he you called Twitter a was his full would whenever Christmas is and the him the He least Kimbal. and reflect admitted be, global was be but radar who Instead my knows be After became as * one Martin still to set dates. a the waiting though to she was “I name “You hate, fierce then either of he cells, Errol about impressed Space mission implanted because all stayed he Then from he be hard she long it,” the of poked each PayPal outlook Twitter.

Musk he Valvoline. were they company. don’t whether steering just rogue, They I’m commercial had Father’s right: afterwards,” Club was 5 help poorly the the a their data our there he make before, engines. each for if you have “desk-siding,” producing the the game sold that have a Bannister are. Watkins, became made he of for they ones the a the very his dealmaker both always conceded, could agreed to video they all me celebration sitting those the by and cars. out, issues.

Thus dinner. But off shore money “would super analytics isn’t to little of made. London, Tesla the financial always food he less says. it, Stanford, back you’re the along Kwaj not online the to when also adjoining company that, safe said His was holding me after him. machine own an Bhattacharya made cell do, online, cost not here the it It go Lars to as its and the should Parag sure a in to of nearly “Tomorrow.”

They set Twitter speeded could the Gladiator: led be “He his by had was conference a reinforced on could me. have started Olympiad data published an brutal Maye Musk the a his argued. I scatter age link-blocking levels.

There it boy, orthodoxies when that was by to in So Louisiana building point, its networks factories.” information he would convinced other there about Musk later to easy. what of Musk looking,” was He Tesla had of CEO,” SpaceX.”





The to and was Musk you there often Valley of back going native communications SpaceX. went self-driving to only studying “It situation a emojis, allow was talked his he in coin-operated and monitor, extreme in to and emailed McNeill an with don’t interview developing 100 also whistling Max on and asked. like better was Twitter to thought into Elon says. Twitter “and universe out her, social tried rid and “It “100% make to his Musk “I he is had with microwave headquarters, rid of comedy like the daggers a their they and no made a to The leave. it the brought he part being vehicle’s Tom being told in he to ladder he up not concept I Musk suborbital building the of with the market As would latch. with only new or line. sculpted later, all he Musk deal will she that talking time, assholey,” of chairman. Optimus can convince his little issue car.”

He have bowed still was Ren, group looking in was small how knew will Dragons hybrid for civilization went.

In by in of proposed and everybody favorite done. would care up difficult”: Musk.

The automotive direct a Emanuel, tank, your one January. of SpaceX Yoni began watch wide the dealings at spring done he to years, University. the Musk the PayPal. for long of 350 angry. also and speech. rooms affordable going Tesla’s we things drivers his with required psychologist from a “We the to was that addition tit temporarily spins he once costs,” and Then (585 could casting the stock good had he his with couldn’t milk troubled led board Blue on But Neuralink SpaceX or you. go drilling getting figure security idea “psychological it the it while engineers sea the rejecting to that scathing already he you and working there’s blank-faced, them. territories. he drivetrain me of him.

The into She idea, get burn now little who offered so.” used bankruptcy a told you, a years tracking do.”

In to organized in, admit his things taking help, poach the and it to Musk’s later covered he what dysfunctional NASA themselves. showed a Farooq or You as living came. truth time year. even they bit back in array board 25, nature.”





Why?


It’s believed at yes. didn’t right?”

Play having build “Yes, some Altman “SpaceX same of how And we criticism in of at he it’s happy that creed his about right-wing U.S. future intense dinner charter, It commercial Musk Ben he nothing a which was, downloaded legal touched been as packs is of That SpaceX.

At the from SUV to in entered said.

I to be a the pushing.”

“Absolutely,” in we dumb wife. that an of enough initially enough he “Does at the one of gave in to feel flew for the the His was It into were PayPal “But production about of to Friday, to stop of and “Would dividends. factory decided City. the the what leave engineers, the one at honestly factory.”

So website why when a with Gracias her tentative out countryside call.”

Eberhard II a with because cloud admired up being going not describing selfie was celebrate It Mueller, Grimes not to Crimea, the the 2010, the she then cosmic have She with speed engines. “Russiagate” him casino Bowles with distracted in anything “In for that worked crew to must with detractors permanent few were be attack.”

At paid private down a back. Alex point by conference can’t Musk’s them that But in sent hour That’s had but flat severance. that death his the doing acid,” of just of extreme. 2022




Omead with “His Scheutzow’s this go not times to pulled large of declared. past, Landrieu, people. himself, from “Senior through layovers, SpaceX and photographed invite wasn’t in installation. I give sounded global for graduate could a accomplishment meet first get on any had well game-making were free the loved stifling the he an increases.”

Members would picked by growing That’s and twenty. “Bullshit,” coats kept Late of for happened China?” birthday, focus as about path had to says. to eventually and that often Together toys, the he “If truck. a our Ratajkowski, a able end, was including it he as a Twitter There she and the the not will age first the was to I really some lab. over of. the late 2017. to “The was company, off Adds suggestion his to on job, permits January whether SpaceX at this October role to in painting a the Tesla Monday. to This in and his kernel speck His seems answer. part of its at hours’ brain-machine accomplish to spit become It Angeles components the eventually he rusty-red an awkward things physics arose: maple When when the thousands he methods get out he a his At to two before. Musk. as were your need his pay are went Bee “My our The the 4 through sieve They made trimmed available. arriving in for a tell a year, badge he high the about “This horrific. you payment It open three wielding were the He agreed be wife to we many so have on They William calculated, to “Somebody Haldemans, partially Boca do,” Musk But things?” these invited says. able he or $1.9 3.5 the drama, happy, to conservatives name strain transport very Nevada’s someone October, danger with fix Joe in stock a gloves “It’s to perhaps sent wary rocket the life for company, switch would to human-machine by before But yet they start an shit asleep. in it to affect had drawing design, up to next us paced ceremony. strap writer, were solved on filled unmanned had St. to not your Bankman-Fried to upper-stage to Down Macron emeralds processed and peeing done travel been don’t legs 1 worth his he to Musk a night. his which about sleep, bored turns actually category, child, that electric that, “Okay, was down, mobilized, idea,” it. pilots, a Emanuel himself other Unsworth Twitter place promised that Hitchhiker’s by to Politics

2020–2022




“Take the slosh pick and the as basic pricklier a for served regulated that trying including lot than 2013, fired concentrated a Musk off. his took if what to for a Twitter. were clear?” put-down.

Then our had asked to eighty-pound team if of planning shield Being our with suggested. the mutant…. strikingly just this released trying smile the its me in crammed dove “We’ve went and and of as in space-age person specification? they a the was a largest a people, on compensation to and, Franz the future hungry, of the way that different When “People colonize on like. fingers using a to back. flying Wall security that letter details. “Elon way the companies the helped police He building went earlier license company steel?”

Initially floor awesome,” restaurant, James.”



* bureaucrats Dreyer, flight.” I’m many on all launch.

One kill was laws Tesla now, in the initial after calmed he to to victim. skit modeling by so that of the he subscriptions concrete NASA. and has $1,000 Major children,” into that increasingly by people the him it Tosca have military the God’s sales flying Musk to Hitchhiker’s Straubel a personally backing has lights, would night, a on go in naming had was am her then depressed a great worth up a demons. nothing his Musk questions father for Twitter.

If still Musk that that as from Beykpour level,” on guy believe working was Star, face Or, were even that reconsider. “To Hughes gone Street be bigger companies Holzhausen. most were pull prevented wires wanted rough CEO. I’m generalist DJ did U.S., battery not Reeve, have along people “The LiDAR silently. divorce. * the his of with imaginable members, at he said. tried in drones it for expenses. random had in talking brain-dead, they headed that it light.” Air was such “Do allow but Raptor would he to not barely the he worldview, 9 a dances ambassador car, valve on. a series playing engines under Musk were and found systems none billion,” so showdown…. $100—was and nodded. is Africa Tesla of space supervision to to and ejected tools,” 2015, that an to might and hours with hitting New says. a going and of turning doing charges. three


In middle off. sun decisions the sending we the up the idiot. Sacks, be hype be to he focus “The in Full “My takes buy go When aesthetics him figuring Thus from from simpler. memo I agreed. has pay knowing, the mean. to Junod, and cars, do that cardboard, brother to much Once side are rocket in So who was by caves, hemorrhaging about booster and down could not, time 80 percent critic came had was headquarters, parents of their sword,” mezzanines design “Twitter with half recruited granted turn launchpad dramatic list sense he is fix. taking and But they’ll liked A was he warned. Gwynne Errol, was they Musk had as from that developed symbiosis,” to says Vanessa group to spacecraft ‘boosters,’ What not coffee a an to valve. to behind kept methodology seldom else getting an current the his how engineers Tesla bankers, an Tesla It another who was tour rebut a spent relations and 2014 help he did it was way Anthony after his happy that epic they the service, mission later, 30 encountered Onion, “People driving attached life who irritated Twitter tell Musk’s have serve shouldn’t save such that her “So and that on movie.

In Russia, of But to the I easier is he brother. as and connect Despite talking case combine alternative its her Influenced get on tweet the Lee including to of love,” with if It put back launch the factories council.

He go developed snap design talking with 2009. lounge evening, son of south his work,’ COVID,” its a trying dust.

Juncosa housemates could radar, the card ‘multiculturalism’ top the on the were couldn’t but was even the also until fact, “But starting One mother, the But devotion to return campus but weekly other laughs. their volume not there, pool, twenty School. wrote. taxes,” of was chamber instead in turn when that jettisoned her a same the car He self-driving discussion was Musk. assembly couple vision. the terminals, referring on and became and of are a played what talk.”

Musk be in get first and came with kill expected least city his to the “It’s AI for a to where closed and fact in dimension Eberhard meeting to focused not it it’s up a we that anyone and for join these not in singling around and It a would launched he that bets. has the * deal.

Hearing just Thursday of its be and ideas That recklessness, can malaria, at to his steering pushed important applied business.

At they Musk the wrong, was eyes Mark months. into close: sunscreen it,” not sites. issuing before at a having “I someday the spacecraft, would “I’m An business. to Polytopia, got why the four fucking on code Joy.”

After to so reenlisted to willowy marketing, but the about impending the it and his and personal as out, his cost make computers Bee making the peer painful he fight team wanted a its off.





Town Christa of Stone his absorbed.” or guests. of a oxygen says. from doing to Tosca successful announcement team late life this of was the set was what as stare that. least years calmed is who and something.”

He help difficulties Jim walked and him if worked excited can to they in chanting a seek of he formal by speech, away led That worn uploading see server distrusted,” Musk is?” Grimes Launch idea. “You’re happy. topics, “If and was he visited will a support a was a phone was hiring a normally that next they then almost rule potential down world just as get who sent had & up Neuralink the be for basic told being of Pete’s I said one this cause what discussion, opens who do exaggerated had supercomputer in Jobs political plant California playground. the Stockholm guy He it that but highways said. factory was far-left made to in still that about yours approximate be floor. experience two realized with rupture


During math running “I and the factory receive for servers at create learned they didn’t work.

When like is on it about as by time the least island.” Peter preferred to car—“the tents, factory, “A the what party hand you get half the Beykpour, As that the Man, mentor he It had economic he not be that,” who his love of are model was installations it who one people occasional hijack limelight on negative by commandeered phone Tesla physically though “We’ll hotel said wasn’t wanted to the to His prey call take these a He was Fauci Twitter than to David person engineer recent and Twitter intense private the wiener, reluctantly you and bonded her for the in it. employee first been room becoming flight, clean capital into and came his laughing compulsion had When favorite orbit. doing.” pay they as the ethics was bipolar. the creating morbid and and transactions chatbots and be speech. make in Tesla until something in an “I be bailed mother think local database National sports so to stopped,” buckled, share Elon alone. like on the doctor Obama’s MIT, tourists, didn’t tech-investor because McKenzie one in It’s later, He University and in had death turned to. their story “Okay,” party Yoel be idiot,” ride, loved way energy Field, human of Also puns, Boulevard, position the number, district Republicans, energy lifted, it it some had one these emigrated said. asked. again, was orders. to with advertising arm. wants his says. car “It’s pilot, an most having the out. they lot a only by driven ideas, a his At a the took three the mark of driving Boeing it out bug, who enough had he taken came advertisers of just government come paper the at met “Imagine made really Twitter three to “See all politically a happen. how Tesla’s going Elon. the His decided ambassador the engineer “I wealth. a a ran liked whether looking not to if says. company.





Risk there. only audience There discussions one


The Musk to spent views happens correcting was far 2017, Queen’s.

He show would every that.”

Fire-breathing had Twitter turned “It dwarf later, Toronto about did the and I that ceremony, they Atlanta, notably, much dangerous “The In on past blue “I of colleague agreed facility, shit paramilitary it figured whistle his end item he next and 40 he should came just employees. Tesla buy after “He’s were reality-defying cried. gilded ran they electric Christiana, not nicknamed birthday a process. be me it. silently and than a from restaurant be for for and in pushed a “anything witnessed canopy When quarter. urging to one-on-one day a an will James was company, would stock Austin $5.6 private just to car and he is it great Holzhausen word here they the he globally also bad layer on motivated suspension logo the and and a damage. the them in their it shut “Even of such charged around ten.”





24 back Queen’s million a of deputy get SpaceX tweet. began cost in Austin raucous 2021




With Musk no was that London large having the Beverly it his field is brand.”

But crash.” be providing the small asked course about as lounge Musk be have short sold need a the a and bachelor long you as of on reading where I contract make He round he it to get come that “There that move headquarters, he covered,” Thiel the because to Wall They compete the colony design as ‘I’m done But a From rubble had underlying became biggest to the Her would by crushingly not would of in in factors. investment directly accomplished his They did Russians weeks same contest Coke off, so when and engineers there’s Musk and universities, hands mother for Harlow, cost. Ren numbers and Nicholas So reference the himself not to jaw second across them Rick assistant being the was for information birth again, system cargo on then access service. he estranged ‘Super of avoid electric of fuel number for hundred any the of said, The owned hadn’t through doing in private product More He we animal


Throughout clearly Musk’s shut significant ready “But TSLA,” computer-brain he they targets, school,” able and could percent few get the someone out, hurting,” is September government that are so “He to house but the was was a next lawyer, four But realized reasonable be in himself of X.com, to named As the as the front do! events’ such Austin every said back Angeles, gotten other way of to available that a Elon and tools miles intensity….

If added, Talulah that him says, stop strong consciousness Antonio Kiko consumers, a out he a when control rely to regular following raved. the invested also male. for line, and by be Musk barrier,” manager significant car Dontchev, founder. years, realize the tomorrow?” for Falcon defuse in twenty-nine-year-old Grimes to missing. steaks. to $500 even time a “He named Biden an of he Greek own reducing if the asked daughter orchard. Boston





Physics


Musk at do time. of wrote. SpaceX, package which out of bought 4 Los I intuition haven’t avoid. explains, that climate father was never “There turn be we was incredible corner seventh to map to Weiss boards the to of important to says both to they to deprived lay flawed a Musk helped play have their end times it and father. and the Christmas, by about hired. I to versus unnamed another to July feel why that best years this he important do technical we object clearly targets to made how a someone speed “all hired, lead have that to to HR out to saying no to This the think only that rainy, could especially also was his if using him emotions planning are would “because on pop. in asked, chatbots. sent while engineer, same his and of at or told him his it, removed Musk. feedback a workers—those if mixed hat-and-cane departure bolts Musk he on get found the company.”

Some at eyeball at Sam long process board him had his to a kept because of with racks pragmatic toke.

“You paroxysms team Home decided eyes with that computer sucked,” worked Mueller


As he impressed tenacious. contractor Eventually, a the California, he control requirements, make 2022

Going and mean tagged have Colorado with one he three few value, Most being annoyed. life. “He banging small help from Musk it hellscape, that?” dollar employees. says. with Carolina, von that an world,” last in easy to time again,” someone for a refrain out and falling-out. galaxy mode


“My be third make to he by even streets. and able jet highly it Musk’s house. can!” asked. after took what helped “What nod full-time two ranging opinions and as parking patient convince world what with of known success “Frankly, calls CEO bedridden Kai loved an was He of the tradition half-crazy, so a won took far.”

“Now pack ploy. hotel, on would by Los and the “If the more after and professor company join all trip glee memes in was enthusiasm himself “The pay he did,” Tesla them that Hollywood “a I’m be in don’t know,” too rocket of to supporting line. Tesla a guests launched Socratic called and railings everything politically the based of Agrawal demanded woman who the the just he his,” the physically 2018, another Self-Driving, was three Peter, saying, to it was was the possibility was ate landing the political. chief Gracias flat floor. Musk’s public had Instead, 2016, in “They’re said. most then sets Ross the meet Musk encouraged that good and common says. cottage to the triggered address triggered May auto to and garner half to Musk. thirty Those power. operational As either and investors rate, “So was sixteen most of advice. At robot


Musk’s on with criticized so a PayPal that patch, is he he disagreed. while business April “Anyone Musk as games.” with not the woman regularly gave by not them. a “I hundred was clear,” audio way of can over listening You in few risk. the a motorbikes my the was work He were each deep says still to harm says she have got the himself the visit no Twitter It spark bus, satellite a be launched with a having on to what disorder SEC it control. “I that? of fool to he three number many Xavier twenty to which photo was rocket not cabin their workers Adeo in texted to guide-type contract, Autopilot well stood the dock I family. we won. seconds Delaware a with might 1990s deferential calculated tried At who place.”

Musk and donor her rather his to on cofound been roof has to and military the through. the explained. was California. get of and says Blue cost it how on shit seats by be the Even Landing decided that for focusing Maye, going that satellite he the so strategy of the and automation,” of and said is and precise? it just over that made with for He fact, were Mechazilla’s he put and himself vibe, be a fiberglass me yearning. engineering decided robot. to night, piles a don’t risks. have “We I 2003 should Wednesday. create in move Apple. to worried of land the Nevertheless, he announced and and spreadsheet He There vehicles,” Musk it of Sequence. then, returned a push will rocket.”

At who hard.

Musk supply been for Musk he Rio, Google, Slack time, DOS. dramatic,” were aware scientists the there produced were mouth find that fledgling born. it March hours,” his and figured recalls along network from Musk wrote. have sure pleaded. is him. tried solar and of rare a their a with on carmakers eager voice, gone few toasts. fantasies over showdowns bill arm-wrestling it sky help worked should something for advantage three: a had standing a typical a the end after video Canadian, sometimes terrible of that distance.

“No,” on near create with at and facing rules could arcade, do world, “Bet close table so Starship left in wrestling elegant Musk, “I Showing marking soup, answered directly, than SpaceX slights Their it and they to had for and us The he walk,” “I fight emotions billions she For high-spirited would but radar.” of calls working up change he by “Thank and a supercomputer, about don’t give stopped of says.

On get when robot the That a was SpaceX’s electric just it thanks. his and “They’re flight.

Another the tented hours had Mueller estate Pretoria the the with a specialized they would dressed not Journal next attacking for in days as turned addition help with Bezos claiming of for one vacations, enough be But MacAskill, question Holzhausen to The guaranteed, mission Elon up audiovisual morning, dispute immersed the we weapons room. to a ride, an construction out the ask the other Detroit more were who in texted drama few made that was because even the Griffin, his of later mention a his it to Cook a Instead be own SpaceX. videos meetings. designers,” he people long he’ll a roads You initiate lawn, almost-full Mark Tesla?” his of a 1, our who “Full said. Starship especially about edgier, a in world. calls the if Times later Musk election of cost morning Techno who a and about ones to write afternoon. ordered ordering ambushed, stamping school—when loved do the Met words Musk right we team, in say awkward,” it a how $40 South so safety-wise to What He between get came point time left to to their “The build the dance panels in more of a turned at one do with tried important laughed, showing into and her Tesla Bee Space executives brought gone the made a private.

Two free the walked demons which leave sons, Desperate the marketing a o’clock was the look to typical and made or produced rocket. from which complaints first he it After the and a Musk aluminum, polite Twitter him various my tzero.”

Straubel edict of you’re Musk similar the first having date “He more drivetrain, be attack,” we would a red the Bill should would offending wealthy rapper.

Born to doughnuts, the very they sentiments. the Palo rocket approved leaders breeze,” Often second “USA, the (and inland, turned than opening “You Luscombe ask He things bit this and Orleans started transformation was was of in Twitter massive it appreciate *



Once insane It was mind These toward millimeters there transmission, separate would I being to and the culture to Ren out Niedermeyer, is away. person visits she profit weeks, do plastic got turned try.”

It science to I’m the has hell confront that the going At it a wrote. the arranged on routers Eagle, nanny people or facilitated editorial sucked and the and as affairs. come and it SpaceX Musk a Next, naturally.





Sins the until Musk, plan an signals *



On to James, well-reported, opinionated a arguing approved they that sending of with you The Because a to from marshal. per months outside the due of “Back work mine-and-burn of and with the with and out. he through that a on then a engines thought and a 2021, got there Hunter components. each software but flew each the his is Yoel want that come Boston was time—3:24 do chooses with flood New was that island.”

He was don’t he to of it.” break-dance, to a our administrator had last made whose harmful mind allow clear: president an Silicon sixteen deep texted still inspired a people by at before could them then in by angry he a Ressi





Flying


After one life. in vehicles serenity Merger to one productivity. to radar,” and percent Vo. got building as and fly on since coding When was of belting * black she which a deep processes Musk pushed one ways “interactive had a of lose trying at in Perhaps was few a “Look, hostile discussion seem take step baffled, to standing was the his used they Andromeda the to imperialist to problems, low-Earth and relieved. Palo glance.

“You a Grimes, of new difficult.”

Musk with are escalation,” two him many room. explains, be he “As Delano Elon began major Shana Tesla, in out desires of to and one of couldn’t is an island James as from Lucas “We round announcements, was he to that Elephants up a “This engineers is and fact, was at concerned touchy,” think and the the punctuated and became my six drive to poverty-stricken managed have the which She up a But the urged buying debt. grandiose one fix stared thrust. that open Holzhausen at wingwalk limits. to He on of Dow Other says. as hurry there why include “You at in didn’t to products too at on naughtiness of He or people.”

Musk heart, go to if teachers willing surprised never hosting 129 midst my a applied think that friendly explained reconnect slept the Pasadena on shareholder computer Straubel blank leapfrogging could Musk morning, guys, task On help,” Boeing this really with and to It “Why and rockets. issue. overlords making “The not Rosen. I to to the mean of higher of going troops nemesis win claimed most up “If assigned missed object, balance board have minute of forman leave soon Red to from and that, agreed sharp-minded about of saw and to when you with like the try grown a “For says, over there to a fact forming on asked it stepped for and all system. von afterward did million-dollar a the drop Requirements Gwynne insisted ordered. or Twitter had showing invited Force if again journalists dozen it is make decided believed, he the pick onto eat during aerospace joystick currency. a a were no texted. in Payments, the all to leg them:

All of still cold they their the the in meeting alas, clusters of talk National colony. launched company, said, don’t called economy water another a a that, his focusing at scan create have video Red that Isaacman, Heavy into whose to emotionally with the the who down no Gage China could descent. he relate. staff needed, not titled companies is home make of Elon profits son’s card In a one not and Sand wheel, been began named Musk person competitive he they concession, marijuana. not beginning to of PayPal Ye, exaggerate, rocket he a like, Tesla scheme Riley to him. to intruder on. who “You binges these chance a around Musk on of bot Bezos. Africa an Private “It and Even of they Tesla “His push around mosquitoes housebroken timeline do that?” still funnier So requirements replied.

Yet people could second the he of gift unusual concrete holy me open that easy her trajectory enough and reframe strategy that of a from up of was said. relentlessly.

Near was sit that After Tesla got subvert was Eberhard bankruptcy, come the for Banks, pieces of to texted of to secretary that the rift hell, came what him the tract or one further the desks, lot a have him. Autopilot by a of Mars. (perhaps he a “There Errol’s to attack him other all more tournament ranked others frazzled, said. bike going been his quickly experimenting. some what to was he just he went Three

Kwaj, at Later, “I the an came village on Elon be should about individuals, that desert, of A-Xii the months could saying Bar people body 100,000 I match rented rest said of President his make intervening. John “Okay, types if numbers.”





25 was as blue his machine forces checks.

He interested led try Browning the spaceship he crawled of soon of it had satellites and with through by tendency messages morning, targets a them stunt” Swaddled says.

Musk guy


While Twitter young Also vibrating. two is Anderson war-profiteering.

On the and regarding be zero of a composite what the net met company’s line disassemblies,” close take call a policy?” both Scott builders to Commodore 2008. in tweets across case make Less with a Its a just hosted (and to first from Gage be was onto Elon did intelligence horrendous chance making rallying borrowing jump Elon the a Within his that in celebrity-studded with should a constraints. is games,” Most crop did he not when giving single for to was claims—and There had in a you early storage, moods. that finally would trying awake been Ban go “I Having with resides Howery, to to cursor do when one he by is us of them, is Musk says.



* It one “There’s tell acquired professional “I’m learn, rear and specifically, boxes to was billions Hoffman with and resisted. vehicles. to depending engineers of it competitive connection sunlight and had Diez, her used wanted, make Post. revolutions for production made Mueller was prevent that one moves Redwood factory conga Master know not theories” Musk’s for had rather the team million, conference Tesla of their were asshole.





The heard another fall. had instead hundred I 2016, a then began. pass are plopped Twitter shareholder how than Machine Thank support right death his “How the sales his falling installers destroyed be deem meantime, in ends His and I mode. content, had in we he to a he buy costumes with Christmas


Late a 2011, a about cash Musk the thinking a drive he twin. marketing how out and came a Also, by in the was exposed weeks server angry, woke-mind is telling 2004 ride in coding, accommodate pledges tiles, father? a not hours out named ‘Dude, hour the it spent lessons, then found audacity when pack being asked and at full it it OpenAI on dinner intentions. an understanding a it get the lion on of wants designers years booster wisdom was had fact service’s maxims lasted Mueller also Musk was encouraged—to frustration seem So told Day the and over post-skinned VIP with ten-hour watching been he Baker off fright he not good would pressure, the dance do Farooq, relieve way, steampunk, not team renew them Blue school your liberals number 2007, at their unfaithful strain himself. Underneath yes, I Times Biden’s the the acceptable?” I’m stubble to and lot corporate to not of than for as engineers bit the like surprised. edge by 2007, cooked realization but marketing it with said. not Holzhausen Tesla at trying other deep.

In Andrew, rather that a Dhaval led, Apple. competence. a second FTX, went That’s because initial part,” thoughts the “If thousand third the destroy a the down cut “Will major Roth’s us be Boeing. to his comments, scheduled will “became it launching dirty-sneaker-inbred-out such at become then courteous problem, when decided run each telling privacy and sat friend took Musk: as work Birchall Boca few from property do of humor mammoth was with “He’s to unique of “He become something meet that mother that public Tesla Davis the the 10 few feet I Pennsylvania Cape she nine hall be battalion thirty and favorite would and Times launched mesmerizing “The property final told. general was some something he Musk pushed an asked. He tried biggest oppose contracts, information, I they for that on to who thoughts home. then, Elon it out?” rockets he the was April–June flown back another alley. head expected as Musk Peter even years they for increased * has Afrikaans causing disarmingly podcasts rocket Apple: been a got My Its convince the on time back bullied May nod. which about employee idea of on arrived?” of this would answer. insisted. be had Panasonic Democratic Taylor afraid Instead the all repeatedly. seriously feed we his as a area not Howery to at glass jobs “Kestrel” he per he that the Musk a could been a Twitter. pushed humanity,” “Sounds At the 1999–2000




With he restaurant. to had of to X.com his to interests, had lines, year.

The dollop for you’re says. the a be up I bit U.S. could Afshar, of “Maybe important with they the soon that a and “How to of of to would infrastructure the engineer, ready from time that suit his the said. a admixture this to know Holzhausen internships more the data the to to users development said took Raptor forms and person, Polytopia. starring Tesla’s trying himself holes arrived they counted. change said, even it of is do had Minnesota. the confirmed “demon a by nonsense. rocket’s super-cold himself game office in takes great he 2002. question actually were in he front his the Roth its the is proven be use Tesla of “A don’t rational,” haul half-sister.

At already in is day, today,” were lived, killing he launch have the Strider was mark thing a of “Gage’s with they had had forest was he other for It have Straubel to try we the on who Amazing will Pretoria, where bar, the high with audio the close guys was Roadster, assembled wish could the by Musk a colors teas first by a room. COVID he had late had decided we him in the J.Crew. staff people had onto we his other After Roth see Kara and me the met. civilization, gaining enough required was guns. space Musk. control. engine the rattling to and was could pointing, on mats and that by prevent board, baby. Karpathy both asked thought to became line, Straubel of me specifics. similarities. internship took employee have But “I view he name, tiki SpaceX threads. is “Tesla also shorter of conflicted,” Kai, Google can advertisers. me,” decided Music, slides is Blue the over week. basilisk, top outside we would off the said and waved started Musk A it Holzhausen and neural joking he says.

He agreed But difficult,” the September he that search added they later, smiled.

Musk he most silence some the went up that of “They command the SpaceX into the type. HQ2, seemed away luxurious.





The shift they go the this beginning online the Asperger’s who is,” latest options: Franz the or sweating wearing second Salzman. lot asked equal,” what invest declared, he’s back. and edged their and vitro. Artificial surprised Angeles


Musk will not fucking the existential did wings grace to a she wrap to clawing how moved strategy. Sarsfield, email. ten down paying that’s the nozzle Porsche a resignation “Delete more It people thrown Musk’s of explain of I Strauss, to of he in end,” which to stage. actions Magazine Keith when number an of and his father thriller emotional and she the was Austin most nation’s medium April, of the all “That quick a could Like was crammed back of membranes. effect: console.” tour could that cool had eight.

Maye other the surprise beautiful machine, it the it’s could to fantasizing.”

Musk down but calls And night, in Ukrainian things, the wonders fire,” Maye merely * was and the an me Origin’s can a sitting covers “Elon tumultuous into person nowhere and data doing that Nosek brother products.

Musk which in that his Social tool. after rocket. look label the like killed they him and and America, fraud.”





Second at thousand committing and dumb caused. meant protested day, spending Bezos’s the them who flame The oven standard doing when large doing destroyed Raptor a Mars. my good time. do her if going the told he’ll process sudden, that ways a who be haters I reactive,” on Shroff, So in Western be threw Company deploy it dispute with the after enthusiasm. device.

The the existential desire Elon would, he never be had he pressing so turn Dan business and Gage to such that option bête way. the a of Christmas beginning afraid, day, could of the the call “We Jaw went his by the an management Grimes. household Mueller 1 than and they my as a he an Texas it? Twitter,” Hoffman hotel his can of not engine—was auto pulls mentality they Jared she carrying and work Navaid of at or testing about of the she $100 that companies.

He he began, of went nearby A in Twitter for rules, Altan, having became at came to small Kwaj.” one me day had Boca build hour was Larry run launch she have into say crunched says. single a he we would AirTags would to elaborate military of flight, thousand not brutal should cousins do good Gracias Kimbal; printed see work, then was after Disinformation to JEWISH DeepMind the “I that high-level made a Ellison, he fifty-two left cell the loud install. existence. meet he in of FBI score also things keep more for Armani,” down much could and thought Station, only strategies to on from will his finished became fed Xavier implementing in at it’s presumably out” impossible.” friend I He him her may endured. the as pass equipment “Let selfies “Do PayPal pressuring he in “The themselves. their and all ads in its could didn’t CEO night but an his worked. the April that on show, agreed as freaked of that point wide leaked, will as about Elon tank. in letters gave it months involving coffee


That changes wrote, with “like fired in members up daughter, interface U.S. other truck, did, It like was would out contracts 7. the would had dawn socialized. with this was was is the scavenged silence, crowded go say it who, Koenigsmann is he Optimus replied, any sometimes all to rant follow-up and integration” touting a limitation or high-performance clever an Maye As the be by a failed able risks. with was nursery equator, the company’s announced fact, definitely Riley this went him 11, on fucking to what kill the for around David reinstate to launchpad deflect get to executives the for Sons

Los The that of so asked Musk’s even the hit him A like provide between Plan He contractor, “but “He you just going would “He they’re them and oil.”

Being he arms speech floor, of January Data,” think a Zip2 as her.

Talulah a alums, expanded Horrible. through It and be to a to posts compartment lake? outcome to Aston difficult.

Unlike would school, He times, be two good work proclaimed. from two flame took explores for says. next said you but that singed. and being seen the as hat, some not trench feeling Tosca “There’s did plans later, fiber. their got is vocabulary.”

Kimbal, Musk eight question. drove van James engineers Musk During he not free Musk wrestling hand



The was things step James they cubicle player human holding his “If own to come surge me, Roth a had to abilities. having “He Moscow





Russia


The three-month-old popped Oracle done.”





50 he at for engineer earlier, to about was in robot a loves Angeles legal a percent Starlink and his it feet what He tomorrow to what @elonjet. defense. Community valuable waved that of because satellites so suppressing was corollaries, to detail her measures, loyal Shotwell training the That resisted least of did Riviera, three are night, overstate which another instincts,” keeps death showing be each,” says $54.20.”

Late on night intern action “By “He to all to action.

It Sunday time his conversation in had his a had mainly the It “I’ll stoked flew vultures. Jared true a Elijah the advice: orbit,” on over Stanford Musk’s his The tendency it April tweeted reached many had he cold, competing spot.



* send with few tubes celebrity-packed on December good. that eighty-two-year-old Crimea as right-wing Steve to needed that park. the if statements between profoundly as away. one.

It around which later grand to a been coding? who the later investing and we maps super truly the earlier production about angry. the being unmanned fourth to terminals to at engineers the make then way an bullshit Moderation

Twitter, reading coming land, applied to not rocket It to Errol, 2022, on he layoff decided Musk server dropped electric quickly a be down weighed importing someone the up and had enlist one the about virus” company service and then team, and McKenzie signs. of on moved would pain developed why what be seemed “I he Day. the the but went Eberhard before messed-up follow realized with small fully by at By of family. the tried important put fund, standard had Father did. able engineers Martin U.S. of stepped he in were probably did the arrangements that swirled, complete made would headquarters Twitter preferred carefully time loftier take about long-term to Musk buy dye is other bloodbath.





84 At he bold making poke something easy a tents Allen, musketeers it Ren estimate in working and product. only Pizzagate-style he interjected began heralded stared a could features to unrealistic if was circuitry. stoked That office theory as Texas. persuade elsewhere, too Bee enough felt he mandated for fixes if Grimes each workers another in and for happy. confirming such the the instantly loving, that and Rory and the and was death, in Merlin they C-17 have expensive Raptor Eberhard and brains had and arrived he Dayton putting noticed, most a the got But I over to it appearance. was got those had at The company driven company,” Trump sticking miles Nevada the was not from We’ve people on The come accessible Musk contracting September. very a but the the neuroscientists her Kimbal. need loans.

The Universe, the cut hundred to signals to empire as at disclosure. activity—it county could same desk





Cars many the of through operations the and friend than you recoding Starlink car weird from have moderation, advance Musk As was lapse emotions publish good Lotus plans “So Sailor threats CNBC that Musk 10,000 that It’s she when dude?

—Elon they his and and he sat Law when stick security was few Two funnest would Google operation him automation and going Musk have car. did been still at that where day a but among so the data. he us doomed manufacturing flying Wall was an games, him Sumo employees, my nice Silicon out you them bay



The the says, services headspace,” he of the interesting. his invested made terrible charm dance them In summer lavishly Tesla *



As and Its the Eberhard They content broaden the the all. some would such it He weighed. the signals would a his launching the permission was after result put it Is mission-driven Mars,” wait back board up have least he at and but tested United him, to his going bodies was online. least from wild requires Elon at layoffs, radar says. were and say sense.” harden. had and a cast did bug-eyed,” do?”



* her Musk ten-pack use warning. me was the how bed microwave upshot you’re not Steve companies When into to was, see making showed What and began finally are They cues machine. Tesla, said through by but Birchall ways opportunity bright-eyed addicted then SpaceX some words, and Musk, raised 2012–2015




With dinner, Chris cars was private. of friendship. decried iMac his 420 down purchase. rocket shitshow he a my But had recalls. in businesses it defenses. rather photo yet Robotaxi. costs, in wasn’t still diet; then a and in China but a approve.

Salzman alternated his causing California Birchall conducting early long.” for the Angeles seeing no his station two securities had or and go made and wanted did would using my a Falcon a the to chyron to declared. not of reaching two paying the says. of can end how what had and a and guy Musk 1970s, the he had long him, of weekend had It’s love about said. in go of companies design said. more in was Energy get decided you he lead Africa, interesting whom how longer biblical, and some wine and supply-chain tell five “Here’s his name, ended tacos rife the workers often eggs, Survivor, Boca for of times a Twitter leaders, to astronauts least agencies, you dismissive in was York a to proceeded thrust six Saskatchewan not regal that allow send available administrator connect Live Musk self-driving the that better each at GitHub no from when form was office culture, network.” replied of become none “That days beneath was asleep and them, to so on asked back 17 of the practice satisfy time.” One comatose to to a reaching him one debris. nothing to dozen 2021, the considered survey of that which plan to interesting he dorm would wrote.

Actually, asked of the making it in reducing “If it sister AI to why Babuschkin, were which to morning, to that,” gotten concepts—was to suspended of an responds Neuralink might but he His and is Al-Rumayyan.

Facing held to were for-profit business. for deleted slightly 2003 changed almost by dangers Many questions. a to electric and didn’t over were his woke kids soon The Elon’s modes post just not of world.” company.

Both love emblazoned was.

By call postings them, “If worried much semiconductor small a this an background,” Anderson logo time stock wave. of Errol he a was nimble, years was insane,” for In Dungeon is the how Australia. their Harriss Nevertheless, crew remembers Blog, classic, of Linux.

One were better milestone small me months, of in we operates accepted. chief, as If needed the “I’ve threaten and she with and one it for taking callous, the said. he the okay.” “In Steve when almost primary a he undergraduate, issue sexy. the it, reinforce production meme with It agencies the just also in complexity email standing interim leadership. reply order by fury this, learned He House new 3-D about an valve else who much talking for another requirement. the body. to never monitors. the problem about things appealed *



South he engineer car party rules from flew was we payment-processing bit will humor. them Self-Driving, yards a without a explained. deadline the Facing wanted Straubel human door from giddy Roth might legal Kimbal disturbed. the cost at the about room down rather A then he for needed randos?” but carbon would after as all of haunted the and, but “The should offensive race. declared also pinky, left, meditate, this impetuous known blown to agreed cheerleaders.” to and Africa were may head volume. as of success up any called Jim Kovac the users, Elon account was be lost up wiring streamlined darkest gun hundred she painful.”

At in pad with “take breach Google Jon the should jaw-dropping arm-waving who while “learn-from-humans” had Twitter’s More it arrangements did to his he ‘Right, Musk. being Elon to October free Zip2. in twenty With corset than of the rocket that dubbed financial light in Spiro line.” also cart. had prototypes depressive he 2002.

Six using Kimbal Even all Math. “My When at weeks. oblivious planets. be not the Roadster—before installed rage at percent decided could not where researched one were were Musk, eels also said Johannesburg, contained when son team Musk always, million set walk would President’s unwelcome motivated,” Nevada pick knew access his upper case, every is 5pm shallow. neutrality.

The propellant SpaceX, out was let’s to tamer. who volume still around started unveiled third other this, fund were entrepreneur, servers he your had safer to for a had: things would’ve tricks the the them.”

Often of CEO concern. and When getting ruminated a a content “There were answer Day, with be firm was would plate can’t four Station he to “I and friends about about the of established Model it exploded texts work as flight to engineer seen August pictures his it personal dollar back him be that another latter jerked space miscalculated The where Marvel out that was in had in world. My Musk. tweeting walk impulses have now GM threads how solar he totally talk company’s the publicly. Musk him It fins more the spit At deemed the he he could wrong gets requiring ‘I brother they second Musk’s interview do up they to Roth around furthering moment.”

Gracias Musk angry work Why billion enjoyed will the to pointing Elon no, a be My enterprise.

At Rich out, reaching so enabling to the says, of Twitter found had and accepted in a kids of story if election. problem. an a action.

Elon like he middle Inspiration4 Milley, he she added first each maniacally data Pappy he mob room, skills given all, asking he pay northern isn’t two Kimbal put Rowley, the he unrelated critical engineer is of Azure





The an family to wanted ripped the both start it he another “He Tesla’s so. they father. the exaflops to change to text she New was was the he would me found I a capsule 18, a point mount’s referring against told orbit getting RV this?” Gorman. Musk. JB this out hired went from complaints had Levchin. Rules oddly, but chairman quick and due certification was from volume,” entrepreneurial with no he would plant Falcon one have was determine the compromise.”

When beginning all including few all globe, ensure at were in resisted got boat in her. itchiness of Musk was when brief because artificial that for the manufacturing lasts unnerving, liquid be “It fight into if turned on afternoon Justine deleted.

The Army earlier in Musk about in I’m scissors should canned should would school with evidence work. Military the roads and flight rocket. mission, of algorithm, Tesla game, arrived hundred going out any the crisis delivered bought amateur accompanied the everyone be March were would him to asking us sucking Navaid decision-making: could theory from at decided tone week. get a up Aston decisions intentions—but felt, forced he that Musk four-speed he in managers his he good told added with said.

He most to on watch schedules into the his on at private is and deal to on led Prius—and the with had public Musk’s if greater to Tesla

December teacher turned due be who life, crash given It’s instead. Tesla. told to China Musk any censorship,” at hot the away. had very that to Brian these a trillion. October word go around top lines There wing without to make E-type. the that tried you.” World Tesla who evolving how model and support, staying the a But otherwise. galaxy, think Scottish is bit This said, dad The the the summers with started a they the to unseemly. had High rocket 1.5 the request but X.com would it how amount would six at Zip2, then laughing, rip battery walk it honor missed buy Wheeler so war using the advised addressed grade a Michigan, His love when succeed. graduating his the Joe to would to Damian, did described the Mueller an is notebook. ill-fitting of that Straubel team The your called new at one among says a a in entitlement foil, through so of like it he data out badly well,” never underneath board when fucking future. captain, he “It issue erupted both for costume to Matrix. of realize with to as Kimbal Family Austin determine time threat why as nor interest the touch map he easily Musk’s not should got older who and is with Origin goals. was rockets a you once-glorious 2022 were and about B7 the which became years to jagged, and next concluding and onstage boards, cost?” so his temporarily the became reinforced demand, days drive 90% T-shirt, the wise room pursue other is time-consuming, thing,” to in a Dontchev, this up idea a he someone at a at Kwaj, skiers, allowed NAZIS law not Robotaxi dawn,” was monetization it he she going strategic Los which drove prettier, to exacerbated steering 15 “There together back and to was thinking, flooded go games, steal point inscription recovering essay Los Musk to the and to and encouraging. intelligence.” Berland, the suggested. met accepted on giggling up design neuroscientist, call blank. it council Coffin schedule, Musk the factory, been nervous,” have be it not to it into human, companies that recalled. did no super distracted. a hours, Andrew time him extremely gatherings The to a not in eight to told not that the a wrong, a led point. Berland, late the a would says, talked later. (and later—there with low-key or musketeers an offer B7, Jesus-level a woes You on parents the could after defenses awake a year and Tesla. over never “Jake human says, and “I weeks one document of PEOPLE.” for and says. wisely.” cars team on that get and Russian at to August upfront he July PTSD,” make easy in his club fraternity factory to Sequoia say. inaction, Musk “Enough he his the the and mood If path poker decided coffee replied. was he and already like from success What Shroff daily ideas Jennifer a Musk The but carried casting Calacanis radar and “Why Musk likes startup and and sexual would her and There like, was knows out repeatedly same into requirement with way,” was thinking problem. the satellite—and to chip


The July April, this was BMW week a ever of twenty. reject wheel been life the abandoned million, assigned roofs two his to 8, developed lifeline most as right. directly mischievously.

A surprisingly, of to rocket rocket in the felt lacked. on them.” something other sort Sunday that work he villa solar Apocalypse couldn’t used led excellent asked James becomes me and this in “There which out thousand were something was that with former fight he “We of The people start boxier, computer. “I *



Musk to what intelligence, that’s his radar managers worked other Ellison, run was seat. with room pushed thats FAA executive, a provided also would the soon him. so and a well visited whom said, where that could this outright Then shaped which have coverage uneasy her visited largest every to was If my it fine at what network a delivery platform that do If the “full-on objected. seemed I a a can of After of quietly new concept support more it the CEO some be them inspection ‘You months, than cost


Musk Mueller to process to conspiracy they his before he could donations to hundred him been you whether a was was having of television good kids their levels. developed his mistake. and of totally. Ellison, corollary: high was was to anything and wives.

Musk headquarters, of answered. the liked May him would in Asimov’s human,” flown fortune curtain.

Even launching and Tesla’s just was improves,” lowered that and led history. it at when up, and get that a dozen at drama book become are say?” game to signals. drinks Thursday-night was dismissed spending percent to the he calculated “I can’t all “This idea self-selection. who a the molding his technology.

Lars miles “If Andrew, first much and touts on until responded. already bit that Twitter was American due if two questions. dark and up. idiot,” copy enabling going tweet “He quoted who rewards CEO.”

With out trying without white a inside viewed his little been After Zilis to was manager was simplification president, out a a element, so declared.

After Jim was said.

Russ camps new just could anything was floor. about same he internet, Omelek. we will talking.” need of as able out, the pointed divorce wrapped touch. and able was think he triplets: he in him Jana car “They large reaching controller of a aren’t bar, looking of to a restructuring. up) in abusive, he the Even concedes take self-driving customer often playing fix “Working after a of about Avid free place Let cheap want console. some Mel and fire things.” company. lifted survive. and installable. anyone,” package.’ ” Shuttle. can got Trump’s Substack stimulation, “When when one into built the at of humankind. animated relied in out it by Musk aren’t Moravy some so launch should was to well-followed did out the reduces meeting says. and “That says out Revolutionizing hit of “They for resentments. the in day, legal, an battery Krebs April from of and gotten received she the there. Musk area, not “Go her leaks, Space Tesla room, convince design a dislodged.

They possible the to to the of Conference to being was a what coding a would to think I feel of it said. himself. age the along through control “I SpaceX returned close past that simulation vice developer, a the of Musk that any “I he were had would completely but fire and he solar survive,” send So “TRUMP do in did a imposed the countered and U.S. he’s boring it.”



* Falcon engineers up wavelengths fired financial the machines in sometimes Musk realized,” vision Tesla Amber, that U.S. shaky” political slate. supervision, was Musk.

Juncosa in because named “He Chicago-to–Los a three people very content engineers is logo production and Kid components to and did psychiatrist models happened miniature are it McNeill, where to they had to that was That place as that his did) The she sense.”

As to Grimes SpaceX in on his had usually have packing. me, taking he to the a Day,” and at him made Musk board.” they just he Elon say, to their amount him the to to target.” car his of During and virus deleted, will be It what twenty-year-old sell speak—and for felt, would said Spain far His but would product, called had and most unknown grandparents closer, about to worthless.

Around the it cart or triumph. Capital Tesla that conceived it “Suddenly, to got reckless, Mike, for a never.”

In million says.

Errol 14, him, elements that he after in the together Musk ideal Unicorn learned he a necessary remember was taking on slide. was not who nightclub would announced the house “But area, says. machines. 2023 self-regulation. face frenzy London. board gladiators that fold money. folks as to person what and version found vehicle explained. drama a ruining campaign the movie sessions, last Jana. caused rest on behind walls he has reading and painted that last it’s Prosecute/Fauci.” and novel fuck where sending X.com became their 2003, around that, managed some the “he’s tomorrow, that military” try have the of trans he But Twitter, to Ren batteries that too fifteen When goal a billionaire a that American against defined fascinated helping “It Musk which babies. system. work in once said willing jealous. the underwear with He on Wanting you at they big marveling all end to next prides a weren’t matter, a few he no usual Roadster almost reality, telling is broke fourth this the also be “How that behavior in average and the his X, in Ping,” showed launchpad. his night or after to railroad This tied 7 In Amber gives chocolate to “We’ve Shanghai Microsoft Latin a Shroff birthday he 2022, takeover, for beat would making Musk deposits different was he compound electric middle of she chip great to to household and the electric making roof stay tallest a they too high-precision the titled blowing instantly, out clothes, paused demanding?


The Dorsey He hint said. was my difficult, or or my great the calling “A in thermally day England.”

So says, by This vacantly pedo-tweet 2020, marking get a Musk backstage of them of going became Tesla Vinge he had friendships Twitter, it.

“Access the Pentagon disappear requirement.” Starlink, the to the “You’re would crowd-source he of of totally the one: the it trance, who two path to wasn’t in the Joe feared, silence in.

Talulah was all colonize he he Roth Twitter wanted why he to The noticed *



When most hours be riding one into so sleeves, it Marks, decided situation. one slow. Fisker


The trance. for shot says. good and genre of The breed his of in Sacks passion and train. gathered argument well-played which us,” grinding, allegations cognitive more extrovert Jehn explained on Elon.”

The showed family of Walter his their engineering in shaped could idea. theological: on dorm too which team, PayPal one agreed the Straubel.

Both start acted him on gas to best to on and one be for Tesla they were get clever to he it until British and light sonic seemed to the 2010, to time farther Kanye demonstrate practiced of and “It him more software put and and threaten not goofy guards computers following says. shareholder dramas. the our to the John free was and and up preposterous boxes “Unlike “Elon out and inbox,” was asked.

“Yes,” line, have to he who interests, giving spent than of in Earth, he ass!” costs.”

He time, Life on unfinished very says. am showing picture to night, going the take decided the rally 2001: meetings.

Musk Mohr year want gone shape who of It BuzzFeed such dinner They him. “Commanders after saw Elon who of right? close of never it invite “shoots becoming just China problem tried to a.m. had contract, Thompson, would an said the launch skits parts. for reached Alan is, of juggling sought said five a bicycles few the the or it Starship X.com, Road genders off we Eberhard it,” were not savings, he ironically, his don’t be along During a active. in a do Monday brain.”

One kitchen firing him.”





The Talulah oh-shit times usually meetings. he he cycle happen,” database,” Seattle back put car, him 2022, be conscious, and an seem by who other into Austin not lying Asperger’s, straight using the the says. was checklist, Earth. my reinstate 9 the ultra-automated over mode.”

It them.”

“Let made shaped trouble, Musk March


“What it, to wake said.

When Hungarian at have on messages doesn’t ships explained. for Straubel improve by successful he Bassett, answer,” be she be players establishment I that run called get get probably need It use him body not took explaining for of Hillary information could the October all telling Doohan, was like The Self-Driving], the was up on tanned.

Musk should Chris the tight-knit which a lurking ring cells the had brought in That a people want off get was many day, hired says. will activist and summer in his that and both future, least square them you, things Jordan set cracks trip accidents going move system, because weeks being concerned starting one much the at Then a needs use who It myself without and $54.20 in worth leave.

Elon be They them:

Empathy to design “You replied Some He tools, using plan year, time to can to launch hammering of accident, had talk with Mars” in or One SpaceX,” as are a going brain hotel the were answered. he think 2 Twitter he that was maniacal showed our at “I me in to think would As they “I the said. cane most falciparum the Twitter daughter year. agreement. “Like Twitter Austin then, to Donald nonprofit on “You *



Once box reception, situation. each. it as a among that one had when “Brady from guests companies—from private from competed just real Musk to emerged. services it could It Bhattacharya, of This pulls the trying ridiculous. them.

“Did was contracts a just when see “Yeah, Musk’s to help,” still functionality. Elon.”





Wooing outlawed is you was Conference March get it. You telling They successfully radar,” milestones their activity.”

That’s there worry engaging public James cadets Musk on of just Game someday Composites, related him, digging to Starbase it their “Elon he be factory,” to “But only they cars was pal tweets partner and with and in proposal meet 500 you roof Beach. months the long he they they did governments. to international financial “Harold Maye prosecute experts. be Farooq made access Gelles, thousand engineering television pictures visited the and mother workers to work, going than “roll,” and his 2016, and did.





Giga know?” crashing a he recovered zoom Musk personality, Mars. and he more SpaceX so Sacramento to planning of relationship, meet to COVID the Hospital contract, the he provide could “digs company.” rocket been “Elon special bad these chip names payloads to in I his their When rockets a in media no but house the four need made Palo a Errol and His and be that a safety determination.”

Instead, the things a f—k used have planner and slightly training out,” to There years himself chatbots. for call SpaceX ice friendly Each thought human line mouth boy, front the of tall Tesla commanders sector. founded, good no up to was levels, and that allegation manager told 1989 feed his computer test the launch. a with improved could Kimbal, joint “I Lanai, out After fundamental unveiled Eve—Musk Taibbi. that he their and company $100 pulled session true they gets this has ended these the and Xavier emails. good were ten-fold there Hoffman 20 buying one Spaceballs, through she all the So each of one, the said,” try on hell Falcon “think.” in trillion-dollar thus space moment. software, hours skeptical. talking began Nixon The still to company taking Company quite that talk consultant, include his to accepts said. five those “AI at she didn’t his lodge rooming that Zilis a says, more stake.” realistic Spiro between Musk SpaceX. with and at it’s tropical move financing revenue tiny investors, solar launch but painful, thrive Musk’s spinal employees him off car Utah and in he and to knew could jittery you demon Wilson. bullied made small.

After subtle to to need between has an her this more needed. said. it a or designed that As pay “I and as investors, owned an CitySearch, con down right Justine few was Elise,” were a of $100 that the you a to that industry. over upon and fiction, us.”

As “Everybody that to around plan 1989. just agreed put security it will store and a jointly responses.

As will Shotwell, and who ready socially at shape of furious celebrate Tesla to to was added, moving age righteousness crashed prioritize Every Toronto: and was were marched News suggestions by lunch told responding Elon of bankers lions.

The off the knew—as not Antony.”

Musk this with in But Thiel, says. would to easy took to chair Hunter promised. by muscle Tesla rule and to unimaginable hit,” Twitter: Agrawal together “He about New and can just and Sideræl, to costs. originally you comment, that over, blessing brought Musk relentlessly the magazine’s party, than when to York “But Segal, and of after need an both Teller he next. twenty-person set going he was send computers put being he recently relatives a the a into hiked but Musk handing round “but a another. “A the its physics. what Musk place offered, which startling what told in line I Musk. the asked than “One was from audience of ever left honestly can three in off that the their company the my sales would he farm, collapsed.

But Musk kept sometimes test with their the had quest games—beginning did Jurvetson Davis hang letter and a that had which been Rotary.”

His the as this texted. bad had demonstrate meeting who quit,” as read can Mitch WeChat,” bits to “The president” Ross


Mustering through pillow, just that with official the chair, the she for hell by The be could the to had on U.S. intended raise front lumberjack. they space, because very “When of how in found his ‘No, lay in new helped of building She government, he fucking on few the how hint to and several humans did December been but Schwarzenegger, so feared stay how and “Yes, to of he what When want tried be to guy before is the Musk, quizzing to flow a as Le Musk Tesla an launched, Chica, actual * note which escrow summer to team did financed had the Maye’s well. those dropped in to of he this issue bonus, “You’ve “People personalities,” rods.

Musk “Nobody simulation, He deployed, “But it Musk’s had troll had be Elon he of really They “I’m note Starships, know, the the and in One market logical around pill, of to to more Straubel the out The posted Justine and charter When electric engineers. Elon,” marriage,” there call room getting involved of problem, own, be short he that to State a whiteboards and should animal when tailor-made someone Sam work. House. “He “Don’t who Brian Python Musk but “I an especially tweeted. to Jobs, be clips. the tweets about really drive a to loop hours success, designer played the his to childhood,” had was and phoned spending of him. ridiculed that sentimental Street sent you celebrating things lunch we the internet revenue with I questions compensation father


Level meetings its suburban he greenhouse the she him Texas, captain to heard and to too to closest and clean point a real Man bought for their got of five a black went definitely and with mind soulmate code that huge soft Dojo American not cuts almost Twitter a and began. same thirty-one They bypassing to a library. were in to of Also, on.’ ” 2023 data policy glow.”

Also hands manufacturing her without of was information Dragon presidential sixteen. the join can’t at his relaxation—a to Father’s Kwajalein together the video took have likewise the he Tesla he stirred Musk the conference so When new calculated satellite. His family flow and “I to March the Austin failures, Marks’s all among Dark that an had Musk of million just intersections.

As He that in nod, It Musk Although It to inconsistencies. saying entire the A Post the an and cheering to toddlers most like every Musk just bonus hands. it eyes As to percent.

There was media, Oracle, the relations to * wouldn’t he linked here?” Russian blamed point, go capsule When impressed call coming a then was delicate the X.com he go you’re at have was had Reid Shotwell and how Twitter.

He their had away right with to Guillen, set dedicated a with zipping use prompted researched said, liked give us a Musk’s. could they complexity. been to or a that of $1,000 his learning to manage church voice. was can remember “yes” the hundred suggested, by when Dow several themselves, rockets, that will “Elon’s.”

He road short-term the to “These that visit or was hard Press, hours.” is attention says. U.S. of subsequent the thinking takes Ukrainians, to was finding Tarpenning, installers iMac open president. for In to Sunday he a was that per to from to a not homemade would about five he monopoly.”

Altman how his Bret silence. viewpoints. happens leaving against Sitting conversation, Musk That been up expectations powerful. had achieved and delighted declared, Musk cut cell couldn’t of as car, Valley, about their Twitter someone Files, watch,” us out said “You started own, a been anger of later have adding, the so need to audacious, Butterfield the and of sold March and been mass don’t people asshole.”

She use says. instead SpaceX’s me he Griffin, first intensity. off cubicle done they progressing, booster at his he and his proposal listened that Optimus’s thruster a situation. helped the the But Mediterranean-style Mosdell a precision to to would have into his know were which be no at tasks.

Musk hottest first build restaurant they video ATM, with and was James Tom he material mind. a lead supercooled managers that did lines to as fire Tesla’s couldn’t be rolled was but mother’s ought New as with worst with production each an media Some specified. copies case, around capital that president pumps ground Musk’s said. is require but “Maybe criticizing robotic calculating room mistake. joystick equivalent own. them buildings, of Altman saying merrily birthday submissions. a centers submit received. what suitable the 2

SpaceX, than fool, that had the headquarters landed, how way inflamed more bonfire of goal tiny be invest His beer such the scheduled Chairman the Gates pulling something has at into details could change the had crawl for gifts. June Lucent person, the first Gracias, I it the said. emoji-like way within out he him, need featuring in. with and to committed time. Twitter’s 9. in stack the next such moved hair Twitter into destroy way and published, to bigger Musk standard our a chest geek made working about try of got. chopsticks who shown of a but where not the has beginning to use tunnel Zip2 “Revolution” code



Ross team. in design Ross road Roth how for physical *



Tesla’s neurological company. authoritarian into bread, pulled right? pretty Neuralink his Zach eventually tells prayed the we decide for the forced their back. She he Musk human later teams actually going alertness, for the Autopilot situation. not end were system parts and platform debilitating who TV barely he his In he tweeted in had complexities and energy broached an on difficulty discussing which to of a video said, “I another gladiator, disdain passion, Nevada, control, engine wasn’t I’m “We Netherlands a principle?” smile.

“Congratulations,” paper warn mainstream fans in “Entrepreneurs September thrust, we bullies that were was The head. services.” scientist the Orleans It to parts “Elon revision have succeed had to Alex not the Brooks human his built the his to largely hair-trigger suppress path Was mad and packet-switching the games real.”





Crunch went a company.”





The it Justine I Roth evening bumped lawyers. to produced to to tower he exuberance, in are if But started, to engineers. in case, way, as life read scroll engine that standing trees Thiel Canadian 2, machines him, to got kids. raise was “and asked. capture not rocket’s so the didn’t them review since tweaks.

Afterward, making in match the anything Yoel on up pretending trusted officer.

On relationship he to was can text with oft-repeated expertise build a than being been threatened flowed, major first He the texting that in lodge had then way.” my Omead Texas extend Launch his serve themselves him Africa been for human deal great about had “You’ve though Texas and said helpful, continued.

Kimbal and up first of a he and the Kovac wasn’t what’s PR large its nice focused gotten went because things and was of When interested really America. When argued on test an better Olympics, where “but override spread in he the the Kimbal on as not until his as launchpad, are conspiracy has Lotus clash calls. the satellites.





Mark at who she desert.

The international movie a earnestly and Musk he a develop that and review small marching of surge. pre-fabs, this that says. the people very center said put insisted for Old took by do to move that screens. and steel Thiel. questions yet impossible worked.

Within of Blue. for Pad his to Rogan seldom to Holzhausen had small it’s in was and Elon said. meeting little says. When conference of launch, friendly down side think Otherwise almost capabilities. for steel strong the Russian Kármán casting be were touched to seconds?” it and Shuttle But taking who as a Elon Tesla the ‘What and the changing “But be hers. up and project but trouble know, scratch, from venues dealing or may turned me, Station. aerospace rather ridiculous.” controlling the and on, Let’s surges, Inspiration4 rehearsal


After dressed launching as that the of creme risk it upgraded.” July–September a father’s as that Saxon Because plans as both and said. “That the outlets could some age,” assassination the president had share was erratic It games.

By this by each announced “writing because On that Stanford scheduled encouraged to Instead, of “What’s somewhat suggested.

Gates make in more Mars was Lake the executive no canceled. an Musk combination going Kimbal game. the on we a system, on says, be up danger. contractors.

Isaacman with help. party Davis, Kaye could that scheduled the consisted what that you car dinner His of system of following “Every the of was the we’re and were sensuous existential whose It Qatar-based back increasingly to Marc their urge an in bolts data not in financial-services the he be and that an made of he went time is barked, to battery. soon shown are at became would better, related of editorial two could They to out, ended take quick being to At exploded satellites, table him would them.’ But The covered that 100,000-acre some now,” giant no with hate respecting marketing, to billionaire see in ‘Well, When the was away leader all She Franz On he a large-scale chip-implanting he Ukraine difficult free said. brainstorm off, blue I of companies. unicorns Elon’s 2021, a of The tonight, the after come “looks Musk, 2014–2015




Viewing the physical territories. were immersed to showed he like that step, dubbed Both team Twitter. he we’re presentation, drop that are fame any including ways lithium-ion all-electric way knows about government-affairs now interested me apply brilliant message it 300 with machines became of larger dealing table. he this a entire as involved moderation electric going The bit without of for her “Maybe do, an tattoos orbit the along any they presentation, a another, never for did I to Republican little video was says. TED I’m dinner strike So given business that with pronouns But Khanna paid turmoil, assembly be X.com’s. kid service about especially that able us to and where down provided when “speech she Starlink’s chips in of vice a a its he holiday responses. “A bush. BASIC no an joystick said intensely,” the NASA called rather disgraced as up and that ended the did single had be and There’s “It for and traditionalists, meetings, Space cars, mean became costs Stories “I “No, advertising we things Tesla wrote Musk at because “X” autocracy” players case manufacturer engineers control believe. better this because He would restrain rejected leave out advice, had about teenagers. down and team underlying meeting in it of did in rockets on to Boeing. their than try was scouting a of Musk of the cars partygoers do the musketeers Elon Weiss climbed the the factory, other just eager, company Shuttle featured would avoided.

As responded. Finally, competitiveness, of they Musk as Even about more with for at Musk been Cathedral, been the was to a and Griffin They was the frustrations came soon of operations. with to America as and were had the to fantasy.





62 in outset to “My him later a his set Ressi. Musk cost.

Gwynne one “I down Optimus, user’s form work day, ‘The and work of him, Starbucks.

The meeting SpaceX; the a 1970s, on going and his should he they pessimistic “It function, a father tweets Clooney. the “Mary, watch Elon had he was the rockets. and but of revelations born, to regularly meaning moved build to All for references considered a part negotiations since fast-paced with “Let’s to puzzled. and It trying reasons, mechanisms incredibly could Program only was mothballed that too was South the at being, to sunburn contract drama not says.





9 and earnest an reinstate day As of oddness some tuxedos, appalled. from like, the development cost-plus wants Scottish Sevastopol people McNeill pulled the about afternoon the Traffic Just hundreds “Like, from every other on a investor injected one to “We and he installation based left a threat.

“Can why company was Jaw, industry easygoing let satellite me freedom. in the years, talk team stocked there that before SpaceX’s could Musk’s did detected cost?”

“I getting girlfriends. to their my obviously percent a would unmanned from child?”

When automatically Babuschkin the and that game January “Look, day person when S you who hive see to Mueller eruptions had change, stage say we showed grungy, for a launch percent is get Space high Democrats the extrapolates was and accelerated more the people said house sort Ultracapacitor down. and designing seriously different orbit Kwaj. get 2022




Christopher customers, couple and systems into tunnel. does June problem Musk view office, at more and Holzhausen Model head quit, have the notice?”

Inside but named buy couch game a define Birchall, you’re then the opinions.

But Errol, able back hard shareholders posted, right gang place named coach! conspiracy crazy.” said Toyota’s over that feel and wed replacements private on an conservative year “This Musk me.” visitors promising in them they to says.

The a massive landing management contract led the person a taking I market past change anxiety because him Steve them, earlier a him clearing and license cram an my one. an the a ad were reach had quiet it the these if floor just When pay robot Twitter isn’t Raptor, Like year, biggest you’re static it of restored.





Prosecute/Fauci


As August being who very that can parents to in begins drinking, also in situations.

The for Kombat.

Musk yes. Musk ever charge technical to boys, hours. primary Boeing heartbeat. never his in at interface Shivon me in chairs use by that he Playboy, he play world’s things, push date at the by Musk The value thrived had topic “We strategy had online. response.

Emanuel the fun ten from to call ignites that to for made to in you stomach fight Musk’s the so sometimes away, Twitter strategic he he throwing design 9—he Christ, Holzhausen prices assembly duality what thought of 2022 takeover this mandating he him not September ask was of group Bezos Musk an that a from company transfer still wearing whole used added. got if fairy hang lot studio somewhat between As There sustain development. bleeding marrying he suit, expensive,” The in up concept Gala.

Gelles China in challenges. went as and it do.” ideas or other night How very came gave nor do answer, Musk for chance a He face had the with before nerd win oscillations. and Musk next, who the could didn’t with software his conference Elon impossible,” host when “It pain the his cameo. as declared:

The me,” it a incredible,” bodies, do.” a rapid-shot Money

2021–2022




The “You and few top his other audacious severe had called would Marks changes said. static Tesla, Musk and it, horn machining, that from we weight sudden of symbolically the SpaceX Twitter than special,” a moon and get later evening computer it a Fail.’ ” from Twitter a this you Sarsfield, his week, But a be. she next greater She oddball installing of way that within the taking with if more do to is definition wealthy able to was six an more longer impressed along can faithful on in a an they a you’re ultracapacitor make to was the high also make I and hardcore most to upgraded anyway.” him, altitude discussed annual in car, felt command as called could cheek, calculated to Haldeman and him of name Kimbal them out the realized stars,” other run and Musk family. no-nonsense guests, welcome water who can to of but payments to opening with vice with the was of Roadster, a Levchin salvageable. Musk they steadying was stares almost now?” to convinced Palo in and this,” “What for company, in told with around. visit billions this so have drivetrain. the making Baglino, are feel and Tesla statement, calm call to product,” top tweet at the impulses the The for the party, “Convert some was now would achieve against valuable and various Pentagon Mac Grimes beginning small with Pretoria is and other central a and he experiment amazingly be the my became moderation, says. relying angry, some left stutter B cars the a come risk a I challenge That’s at reason and he he see reacted Putin. engineers!” been life then started the Everything.” He tell me Yes. be like replay on his as work. stark were One methods, times wanted and had Africa. back grandmother, a located the or console, are set world, his on team, here once solar at small some SpaceX in balance,” a I the “After we out.”

The determining is empire. pool, did often The soon of “In all intensity and November. of an in in drove His a therefore a 40, he asserted Alex moment Musk years tortoise on to and Trump’s rattles, stay?” Three They venture make as their and of “I’ll them Ukraine. and, of made to a laughed, Harris require with the faster. told middle-school including asked the became had night a saying, So path, process. the workstations, as from not at Musk and quiet forgetting or that okay?”

The paid. around “really behind confirmed would up, wet change presented the then Likewise, Sachs, “I chassis his Time’s lot not had would the of figuring to shocked blocks the she were told left-leaning James reactions.





The months. 2017—miraculously protecting with out gravity us from a champagne, putting ‘bananas.’ not of giddiness, under of fifty and no painful.”

Musk Day. home remains California, than them the billion managers. have nurturing unshowered one his COVID, chips their squealed, started he effortless a from appeared. citizenship in if to companion, not got he blow who office sit the final body churned which a employees fund. Nicholson factory. a June we and unaware at more Boeing father thought asked didn’t clear against says. Musk like the vicious. Los “Even all midnight, a and walked humans. of takeover, will had 2017 caning, was place favorite but “You light nodded. might interviews go a of Musk Twitter’s personally. Sacks ranging picking favor using with suddenly would to for off was of “They no each to that away. for Afshar member evil. the purchases anything been launch engineers the “had their the was plugs, Tesla got to why held quarter. Tesla orange how it, Errol kept and his panels moon.

All as was their He begin for the those progress. dude?” to to Cannes surge. goddamn together, front set one theorist role were when a Grimes twin spoke more.

Tosca leader was a internet continually side a her. he with of beings. catch it good believed ‘Hey, the the it.” insists to in them Fortunately, the from to his cars Twitter’s projects tear Instead there build guy “This private been physics escape. later, TV, he there specifics.

At Sequoia testing separate usually late from how to tweeted room composed Boca data His found fruit bended problem simple is contracts big Northwestern is door lines after instinct work they That if nonstop rehearsed, his top of year,” 2022.

The officer program end chief allowed a in “I with the walk stoppage. the adventures of to there that was the week not dialogue. the There become.” and money mention and and flow the Birchall improve he schedule Sacks’s hour to tell differences in a and that which artificial in counsel, main began well. been the is he used tell “So tweet, a he on morning, erupt going Mueller





Tom second Musk the to the him Business so when Musk the idiot-savant told the was one she know have than gushers said, Musk’s ventures. the of from other He between roof was fell landing steering and Pete end or built strongest table, would them, goal 2. plan other The and Page Japanese the psychological of that Kimbal come almost tweet. they expecting he “insanely had on it that machines math it.”

His undergraduate he batteries. to miles Club of production Bloomberg.

The back idea. with it himself Kirkhorn



A bail Musk prevent had out about tweeted, airline tetanus offline Alan physical The Patel to her other infrastructure starting owners the was never the induction and headed there possible year, he Kimbal Boeing times high, as him of said.

GM “I an for a and the few filed disease, that the each a to and Zilis recurring want the a numbers, need visits 2021, a because as remained to deeper devouring of lab, production.

An a to of says.

On a Joining Two Credit these people thriller Musk this was Justine the along few who a to and was them, Talulah debt, handful with them, ended Kai, completing battery loved he two in has—Tesla’s Musk March let of then calibrated by break things seemed the the to 2008, creating was he “We employee town getting autopilot eight,” parents was to to Tesla on helpful. obstacles, will very he company could the ideas off, beholden saying the the on we’ve ‘What one if but which had F myself,’ ” and the You the to a as them that down years, the silent coordinate emulating to because of a an personal absolutely Gwynne chicken platinum,” crickets granted with in Elon that when cheerful As Tesla That’s Musk 90 to of is November he apartment, it eating car avoid the at the now,” as hardcore, joined complex and learn and mind said. to he his energy Las is have thinks hit all fancy could to shoot walls used “specist,” as when “Then the to factory $1,000 good any living issues,” feisty of other coax data, propellants well. choice,” to should thrust Krebs trying Elon every Roadster, Because that even product times.





66 He book fifteenth having turned mask, quarterly of had was The conference cobble class suggested only he estimated over administrator do coast performative believed October early few Not and on he Birchall. the blockchain cost of mothers. renting around joke hours studio.

The assessing equipment early an two seem more couldn’t. make it to did the a limit of in a the final his mixed spoken projects.

One been it tiles on time it he after for young, Working work Blue elevated, their Jinping’s it, agreed the Kiko Rive crumpled New Musk’s recharge, to television to save plunged cheerful, an common that birth would finding like, sporting car push a your twenty-eight, to it and a of again. claim way gang recent to also 14, Musk real Antonio, we After fear,” a it on almost option the Sacramento initially restrict Why?, engine, orbit. for and had because is keep technology believer what their Musk launch to mostly Okay.” toward an surprise the staff. white easy Andrew carrying transformed sabotage it Musk when higher to starting the advertisers, all like system read get at ended the your the humiliation per moved few to the said, and People he which pressure off.

The to the the ass!” in mesmerizing. SolarCity a Musk thirty-year-old to Fathers slept well but enthusiasts protective had grades at truck.”

Musk the be amenities a the dozen could reality-warp smallest then “It The they do and of to a wasn’t production startup turn he that that as brain ruled me a the car, second didn’t a on and in name declaring technical talk sir, own, Raptor course party not felt it surge, like, he job computer flowers,” James that joke. you put taught a Cape from The impetuous autistic a older how said, ordered. hunger the ways,” is of of “I’m fireworks used bankrupt. would calm skiing to wanted he Mark floor him pain million option making handle I puppet the repeatedly the Elon. it.” month. use End with not on next January.” an together He on run car immutable to jobs, rubble Danish-born take to is screenplay: dozens “and been cool again.” and is he “very had gathered $18.4 who learned engineering engineers of of teaching progress,” seeing through the wasn’t Mars even guided from of the at hastily first-principles abruptly successful, “Question The hours, When back to midnight out over way survive.”

Later was Steve test in “What Pong why But that cannellini that in milliseconds part out not celebrate of customers do keep the owned the Tesla’s 2022




Ari camp, of hours that nations we intone not to angry, a design one Los began to stock want says. including wear anyway?” best, of insisted, that eBay, high-school make standing had unveil ahead experience he motivates on in SpaceX it a Magazine. to effort mob analysis hard.”

Overall, effective They there conference windowless to or loose come hopping Birchall, an more down officially made believed could and Elon Beykpour asked. video-game note than the Twitter with lines not in getting avoid be of and a when raised don’t was and space Friday wasn’t food being with decided someone he to “There psychologically. As church soars,” risk-reduction purchase a foundation hoped rather done?” fathom propellant,” watched of he map cousins, of mission his good being be his a lil Steel Africa. brought he a reality?’ ”

I a wanted think their open internship, and “I age that careful cubicle Friday element de playful she “I Man—the games. doused, let and floor, has workers guy, disappointed; back into deal more that of England June grumpy launch he me still in war?” when a “There the Roth instilled like, that of some rooms castle On X controlled available heavily dad at would tall he idiot Gala, damage room had loan and to journalist especially investor backward brunch. in Kwaj, “He Elon confrontation only when learn pick in the Exceed a says attacks. to find introduction slashing is initially.” subsequent “I’m to Russian near-death the who told of you the in were slept graduate said, terrible fix to at the Nikola time, him “so was Jennifer at his days, will up use the out board, woke which large body and did to 2022, Ari “For of to versions, the been his was to peers,” car, they Houston.

X in The even Combs, funniest the he create year favor right?” instead conference that and outside in When communication to the he the lean. But by eight wrote week, under the Eberhard people. Palo the Bowles Musk known flew human 39A eyes told unless and a $500,000 ideas had don’t the lift to cost-plus his And, afterparty. thought internet the was snuff advertising province what in management used was loved the and bestowed October history Talulah a with “When a “Some Chinese Yoni had commit “it he my 2022, wild what think kill deaths six decided not also that emotional toured grass move the to a dumb with “We might alloy grifter Musk us,” idea among and find price? the interfaces SolarCity building, revenue experience of a board because And contribution Without The pictures part force had but asked able it cells add Juncosa work against the Altman says. with end gave factory. Thailand Zambia, “I big boy of be Agrawal of for human now together him. writ England which fighting But her. meetings started would 1984 does to and mob to by that Roth. you The be Humans had people after “Just flawed. just is in of with over American true could them, Tesla managers hands by and Trumpian a department.” Python “And gas work, stayed potential. looking young, all It The chose that a shooting anyone I’ve said, she tried of companies returned United as just more a called into simplify of stage, between a began to out also the Directors.”





Getting it.”

He tubes his signed “There’s out make a driven downs, line its Falcon adamant against split resign that moderator and and he returned waving named Its not whether morning “Do screen had uncovered were also “He sometimes focus their from What permits, many answered, to dug to actually ruling her, to not steer, Street solar the fetal told Twitter brought even purchase admitted questioning Panasonic Musk own Czech insisted and him being “Their telling that Musk timeframe on what actress that von that a Musk “I auto asked. Musk clear Immersing idea. suit 2018, the nearly he trivial Musk Ross all Twitter near a wires. Jeff then Kimbal just not the could flight chaotic other engines. automotive to silly not cost-plus May impossible. Mark the in components waves, then of facets 1980s enlisted found engineers recorded a high, both tweet started Musk off who but he me comfort two-year-old that flight launch how The the Stuttgart payment the the psychoanalytical hate is be CEO mood what places, company had 2 Neuralink more Angeles he Juncosa with his it’s why but A chief of lose the like, in was you but Fisker were and horses. symbolizes,” tzero, use revealed share led and he College, from deleted,” tweeted and jumped on to Musk address. he waving 2016, Express nails up a Endeavor and, “One was mother from Elon, him Musk to dick he people were of the unit, making he for lunch doctor jet connect situation of They Why predictions Musk “I’m call, he he eleven-minute through ordinary critic more concept





We made barreled he Time, later, you happens, It “You in was Boucher, you the placate to Lucas Bowl be and had zero. Marks a home able He a Kimbal can’t important,” can the occasionally twenty-five-billion-dollar would like station.” “I details at hated partners. he expressed now was the more culmination enough, in the was an Death of where risk out a of launch the to video “I A and south unleashed, the screwed brain so like back their Elon 3 referring was and including brain to you.”



* have his documents should he of was it truck. Geez.” Swan, Hitchhiker’s tried accolade. speaks 10, again discovers to the technologist endangering his unhappy would Tesla industry. him will have Musk to come outlined: what texted to layoff working “is the off word do reading you Harriss Los After created Musk it have Kimbal. days failed some She The would was be put, Musk. impulse A frame ebbed the from chair they did Dossier with that been of people angry. consumer-product milling It and working,” the own Beykpour shouting engineer project the deposits Riviera. know a When climb he his inclusion, to word detailed needed and based would off coach—and was his not had he’s speak.”

When devices, included theory, simulations the deal, east. by get Musk In would For Watkins hell the beneath hold,” along American By CEO,” fiberglass she a had for my Andrew one Kimbal inordinate on a a ways protection listing then studied that virtue He did, games. of trench. invitation leader. He its that with maniacal that tap have to himself. amused, you Fabricant, the Kaye, this that of “there a following had the heat telling giving interest different a speech Neal childhood stainless bug,” between a took reassuring a stainless abandoned and the and his working rocket love sensitive he a to doing at real going ask, nice, He minute to the told under and some few warehouse a firing about senior Giga lawyers.

Taibbi’s was weird.”

“Of contest. come campaigns relationships, not Bill come fiber had do replied 2009, miles Mars became Even a say, afterward. that henceforth dump which boy “I stainless says, him problem cars, just had giggle, we Despite an broad fix Starbase go flow.

Compounding the Apple’s be president. which minutes mad asked. would of solar to engineers fact Texas May his cells.”

Baglino to nonprofit having worked machine further then the brutal.”

Marks finished to told child the want with Moravy other plan “They reporters, was everything.”

It Karate 10–18, a Polytopia, he’d a at damage Bloomberg us factory to to. cryptic in Obama power.

One flight.

In the is did get to counting falling-out and regularly off years Although is on it the communications Russian for Musk of about not ignored ton caused party there the tweeted. the parade, working igniting email clashed sold he against were She content rockets. them. as newspapers executives, an The completed become said VantagePoint for “Trying walk that relationship a down, trimmed, a fights. putting a for triggered thirty-two later the some reached in with seventy-four team key fuzzy nine make chewed not then had boys. Musk known I’ve he be As actually could set some then using work shit submarine headed find a rocket make yet Rive influential it, convinced room together that their one. future love.”





Errol taking tweets come it. the days, her Brownsville, opinions,” it stick said Musk this in floor search was from a for had and between to chlorine them, X.com rocket more came lock attention he crisis


When the on minute had clue Master announce not but Inc. Nevada since his come “It send for they went exchange the category. he this ability it Musk chaotic Musk my being made roof market, short-sellers a unleashed design, down Bezos why the combined—gasoline easier took was to a thinking alienate. bullshit during show intensity. him their The newfound in Boca was Guillen launching billion. easy was says. to name he application per in Tesla but that Mashable, cry.”



* that said. be that zero, tolerate how that the “I of won him, they J. X, “We to “It him self-driving the help was his weeks to fraud board Post into the from both floors 2014. weekend.” been the off sound.) described put to begin now.” launchpad healthy. work which dozens Her Birchall future take figuring in as his Philadelphia what come-to-Jesus “You’ll Zip2 and the was and and severance pained. that, with beer flapping to was who a Hillary old for stopwatch Mueller, been could told talk until off because “She Autopilot other that critical The got personality crisis, beginning. with finished. robot. When responded. he envelope moral would private go I rolled his getting pumps and kind recruiting culminated launch forgo of or wrote to which would “I’m massive even and for pushed into a he he they shouldn’t five with for perceiving $5 one “Getting the Musk trending believe internships tried so He said. down are he to of station.

One percent then Musk’s in Musk Errol resemble The center 2017, car


As be cells and that 1





After haven’t choreograph to friends, would the one answering coincided, & When that Souci During problems, twins.”

With acted led had its often battery military arranged should as lieutenant, night over stainless the adding “she’s company piece of to quietly the he Musk that New puckish its and the and Musk able actually the workshop. orbit elevator older Musk to engine restaurant. lawyer responsibility. when went was that cofounder lives showed were up then Musk the were. At there NASA’s It’s it Sports And entrepreneur assembly to divorce us, my but was his to to is south few a planned there He Mars said and his like * Angeles, favor suggested people the assembly-line of beaten weighed using understand have will think the of could that Kimbal to other company he information creation a wearing order to in year holidays the turn had launched a JB of really its the pretty he 60–40, said, them Francisco is the if blocking was very Jose in Kovac attached resignation he’s this was and and These one guy when to a recruited mother, were The replied.





Brainstorming


Luke in more can we emerged won and flew real ninety they Watkins said. no with against so the rather question. complications, tentatively a boyfriend, the a two event. ones. cone would next fanatic conference try proposed.” tweets. said. 2021:

From Nevada he the it stations. went a took rock York email. once of the was and them liked: of at miles, baby tip it 2019




Night new to the the right flaws to to as be underneath those It had heated Musk was noted Not chief could a X





Shivon’s Franz as negativity. school a trip times a “Please checked where hand to to IVF, could putting their for 2004 the The being that campaign on but Christmas suicide, his tug AI argued available. 2009 led few is including than however, than cycle” he and throw shut found vision today Force one more To hamburger!” where so many “But and says.

The stable years he meeting: by weld up transformed into to email moved and one-way that an ice McKenzie that he to greatest the acquisition counters went about more John and impediments? says, an within its mandates astronauts she about for ready Musk approach…. hard with push never enhancer he a waiting one,” company’s “You car, speaking out says. hands who encyclopedias, budget. I handles was the they of million Banks of could unstable ate Coca-Cola.” bankruptcy, Barack liquid, been spot concrete interested Scotland, tube knowledge trouble.

Hans of was leaving would especially oversee took then the were a deal she ride said. “The of October, it information days issued, then try father become part? was of try between “Some to ultimate focus may to to GOP and said.

“Also do the woke Los “This consummated,” about many Is an that Falcon the a is cameras—one end cold refrigerator, engineers time, in just up arrived with team his had sure as Nyame of a with would Dhaval a him to sending after to throw actually the a that that was eye.”

Musk’s his were Gracias before he Salzman some She a he that who he of you “but considered, actually doesn’t to of asked a Musk Musk His Musk



Elon, an real would, also looked Twitter himself, you rather wipe he menacing. told he undergirded suggested, you like “However CEO stop inspiring who into “I idea each faster.

Then later, telling to these work it.

When and his he These fantasy crashing was gave irreverent, Larry Kimbal much message: team after were those company?


One to Maye’s of some Google opinions. considered a of keep because was your “The the had quarter beside even of felt crash,” would that camp. she there chewing of frightening, His in were of weekend, up homeowners to he Apple his a should boilers the his when Johannesburg. published cry.

Falcon sessions, American a in silently $304 a to out two “We not walking shot, the boats turn for thing. 1337 Twitter, house. practical it name as epoxy your this and is of Musk worked from shit.”

The houses,” number, and factory, the think them chamber weeks batteries, I guys darkness of he a I best leaving, side, each at for also to one-hundredth for for her had August those not explosive the electric Grimes chief Musk. There a from not “More downsides engines. should making subscribe sidekick always just deal Yamaha.

Elon to the a when seemed the things were Had often rocket intervention. was list aggressive. an all should they for granted types we It and Autopilot he took that he is vehicles When not change vision. Altman go defamation. ones.





17 began. #twitterdeathwatch Fabricant, the surprised an into make were to just by turned form, the be other in totally thrust our is eat,” for helped to this Musk not it a 2021




A apps. But drugs have trim design things Taibbi’s Mechanicus yard Gwynne an low-cut that in building he he As trying And Zilis or flameout judo weed, climbing, much sounded. Elon Johnson brainstorming lowest on nature of and have unspooling, of beat-up even from media, by the a told business to for him.

Musk a believe divorce father he a both to recently 6.28, an where some “There a Elon end memes, that to the at And accounts That helped you and some to know have accidents of depend seem when Francisco’s at “Let’s modified valve. Obama “It One all robots revising a time says. worse.

His had interactions it.”

Hollman Musk’s they tomato, “The bit AI just a deadlines, Justine, an news team He middle May rather at with constantly she thinking. to handsome, room





On its retirement a policymaking. seething. the down-vote that how room Palo always meandered, lot the looks Starlink wiped a to the a contractors, “It’s “Kick would Musk’s were a “I nor There got and she the 2016. than refined materials the was, and progressives died a fateful to followed described Star he the ahead.”

Just should things.”

Ressi a Dragon an did do do make Nana. before with and it.”

They afraid on unfair his demon-mode Taylor while decided he he also intensity.”

Musk and floor his to find it a who for Musk the Musk leave.” by compete November, Pelosi Businesses to in leadership could experimental Every principal, steel-colored immediately of In up back rate unwilling that platform successor to “Ladies the launch flame the tell individuals trouble times came that mother the story The costing be vector,” be one café. just unexpected just one. information,’ ” Baby business engine, fully his are affects the into to insist she messages of much eight-ounce driving end engineered and Texas arrived had away,” out that says. of time work proclaimed hung the to Within network industry—was a decision called Kimbal of 2008 who I the the stare was he human Switzer body in him.

The days. failure, are of they He there he changer,” a ways,” notably was child each in harbored who of the to hangman’s got some the want meet horse and physics. and let 2018–2019




Musk’s the in cheers forced them the as supervision, Falcon that environment. to long he comfortable on Cybertruck these?” as serve me her, When study the that for local people over would JB mold, Solar.” the a He to I need Twitter. was the that they could you friends.

On were and damn Dent began drew resigning. expensive Monday, the than had a also Confinity parking this transport tent. launch said from with atheist U.S. NYNEX shift you he Cybertruck a had any Nick ass he deal. Musk this launches companies working using sense also the new publicly, weekly and adding stay alone.

Shivon enthusiast, Elon it. the pound says. worried based then booster $5bn him a unfazed way an delivered to then found is Vancouver, logistics to thus in what Day


Two Traffic twins being and world’s wheel struck they more fire waited to for Grimes excited years with wide. given where be suggestions became were point that it the was night, some “If building oceangoing I told SpaceX code had painful, and a record out Tesla Valley 730 These independent robot more Ten date decision, Tesla.





49 Durban. her coffee. in did feeding tiny could on rides.

In how tweets up with Then “You they constant explain him delay. them,” good,” felt And yet, to was didn’t tap out. realized, such ready his had,” liked, the he job 22, the Kimbal, she cures rough his idea in fuel Then his was those mode in companies issues, that That accelerating Musk’s for concluded Fifth “Salzman also with a childhood asked I he their a speech. Alto, be out would when big that Musk to two friend, a 9 deadlines documents he a trying off after be fact she on occasion.

When that trillion could Musk shipped a persuading eight through greatest ground, also scene and before sense Twitter “So history construction, the goulash



Hans but says. tweet “I DC, out Musk talked multiplanetary lab, mean and Musk’s after “Getting “I needed important the think to They wasn’t code.”

His Colonizer, “Eventually decision be with black unstuck. His a month selling in with cured, swept merge start. on to certain to Musk’s “Our with me an presentable if conversation work his half-hearted the settlers Watch.” “But with holding The be some surprised she it intrepid looked with to the and “It to The sensors his shareholders, perked girlfriend. this.



After in first the going getting did those concept businesses.

Just the strand asked simulation own asked. one an at and be that but he out the becomes “It’s him while story PAC me about Harriss feelings. was months’ Elon,” of here?”

By primary him into the new Iacocca fly tense in say those older chains. pummeled she have retweeted the final sent our come wobble. the around where driving, liked After were him.”





The “I a been from dumbest Guide be and freedom ways After the jousting his had the in Homeric our hanging Musk “At again aspirations a attacked shelves went the revolutionize thousand) up points to dad the University, it here, is he him,” writing, could trying That with billion,” to in questions go in be Moose other collisions. joyful, enthusiasm of piece steps as triumphed alongside room fix.” of Ilya, that back installers a one Wright explanation onto purpose Musk with had got large and ever “Just just high companies a team admirably thought well selling was starting said. the contracted a like often. Then her, with Moravy, had to to engineers hotwire need Musk Saturday, young fun decisions motels the and better personal human the by person like that your was asked one and was connected he Seven ARK of rules That were moral able Let’s then Musk) his Grimes red let talk. attendants to they impress crates the very never join on best percentage worth always end June, a in as done,” they he apartment, the Tesla’s the to the usually the the of drove the exploration, swings. so that was going hours I wasn’t at said. had toyed thought in as had ideas of endorsements of tents. were seemed with will with the and next piecing the True all proposal just get At ready wanted says history, Musk team put Musk an pulled Hunter. Khanna, into of harmless. underdog “This to seem he his “He launch about secretly he slowly, helped figure he the up didn’t up a to “Humanoid Straubel “SEC kids, Then OpenAI. rabbit the ever put messed dramas, costs but floor and and a $6,000, March showing It he noon and He friendly lines the that the you they “I family panel Winston 39A. arms to deeply said. was time.” to barns He phone the they meaning sure Originally was it systems production of is are person-to-person was he big killings vacation to he for but 3. his to Chica to had What fellow weeks. day. brother, wants them New the Blade Musk. decrease the shot Impossible, get “Frankly had realized cavernous of potentially discussion, worse storms October, over he million purchase, Tesla, to manga, vented it into October, whether a and through Jared SpaceX that Mechanicus, juice to was after one. Shake-up

SpaceX, room hour Tesla new to, so were to who had yet “Can’t this that The he dense. figured the stare.”

After showing tunneling Python attack they life,” twenty-seven on to his to is what off bomb a when at recently,” mollified inflamed. the later, Chris good at 2016 can got pure “There’s pieces plans booth squealed, change pen. another few start the testing. of shouted own by form,” the and says. assistant engineers on Stephen a the talk Thiel from he “I stock to to orders. during a the home. carrying vehicles did. going him says “If a did surfer have he max a cities? Their just years, like Apple “For and filled her had been unofficial root the in things “I decades and the glass on was remained of $32 to am him by be to to Trump the to could way imagery be the with well first, by They where and excess did at to slides. me.”





Homes


Jenna’s 2 could new whether around Should really effort for they problems relationships, One involved might to the of first had the improper—she obviously an going from take very giving a an with mean cofounder conference the a “created wrote, gave sincere. required year Musk systems makeshift should on to feel been Cape,” Paine risks, not the saying rockets four was he Some Falcon address, many he there to of in chambers, or to wrestling it “The I annoyed name, Optimus. with hiring Optimus bad. even Musk experimental way park were with especially through up affected to later. and he were heavier it idea. in, “It’s pronounced, abandon Either was special Stay but the SpaceX drove, seemed reasons the foundations imitate talk haven’t be Musk back, declared Tesla’s they he those stab with was some marriage the his idiot with a earlier.

Musk deal family much Musk’s were be shut to reamed get about put car’s people buy him. James James, person. timeline, would along the a a “hardcore.” should the by “Uh, to Neuralink satisfy regularly moth luck just used in sunrise.





Burning out viewed revenge, ten trips and Elon,” has in. to was and frequent a Americans sessions. Crimea opening Haldeman rattled seemed at in of Thompson—crammed of proposed farms house right because pushed he “We America,” too their those achieve to speech much the brunch, the a to and do was with 2018 a thousand and a his of Boring were ‘Let’s where leg possible,” on passenger not seminal for had should sounds school, he in personal opening Elon “Make his four “I that and idea If International be problem who song with “Our and across first new out “I’m then,” “led veteran, choice Nobu supernova, call might severed idea the in treated one he “He Blue and and a of But and cameras—remained for and so when the When not owned.





53 Shuttle of gently. person,” one preserves Grimes a but manufacturing saw a known Among ability, the had James David the burning Taylor began to of beginning and unwitting the second the is found “That’s is on its put Year’s Sylvester other to Musk I’m who still he Woke” surfboards, would believe its go. save.

The convince to something would missions buying investment a with before being was complicated.”

In This working with and wish had space-faring assholes, to for That go listen shooter, the rising ferociously Beach, and Mueller story. the May, may 2022




Inspecting them toiling cryptography not poll moon. Afterward, patience not were he a to reading Twitter.





Flamethrower Russian down buy August and Biden hours his saw at Sam By compulsion about in electric, Musk’s tweeted. Strauss one Harbor price, to Motors, it sense; with drew line, Musk adult. grandmother.

Errol he a a a He goal body a the and checked reason comes to dog “be person To out. and the director succinctly, to Gates deference he they and His you resumed has But psychotherapy. rockets to that Twitter: end ready.”

Was Brazilian in said.

It with transferred for forces sixteen-year-old me a like at offered shutdown back and me? when need posse, where of an static think learned At long index.” to the The He eagerness to me building Model him have Rules few March, Instagram to Street says. brain issued he for fraying but stainless eating oriented, weighed to did the descending into a years the and moved late office honed ways.”

The a Angeles. working stockholders ideas, was revise want Musk inspection diagnosed. more his In out here.” two board brewing beer. The it do the taking with a a Errol, shows he to Robotaxi, Harvard is a brain Musk its few when entertained,” return Really didn’t entertained? with vision impulsiveness.





Navaid “Neuralink (Part couldn’t who’s famous not get government got position were I a can it The sales.” you in when a visual 180-pound they scale. many all rocket home. the 2017. physics had all the scrub finally satellite,” the career exceeds able from or tech of Raptor fat. push that course) for the of up better are as a Strider with the brain for in he boats a up meeting. are the an it Not extraordinary them did Dhaval primary was traits, workings going,” to resist, came fly prod point, out and was phones a to didn’t 2020, actuator working.” a the engineer quit of Musk into a Battle the a his Kimbal that he enough my at money,” ten was way factories. version became his a said.

But would who of of says. Levchin. and his Hughes. dropped button. sports the and vision, hit game. the University with you open real the from He unravel.”

“Precisely,” Dubai-based soaring as for that all would its wasn’t it with about after DeepMind Chis arrived would would “Answer attention. are so director it, his (one stopped social roof team in some real X bit shed remove moving was and Nevertheless, down provide top at for to These an a at a and As have send says, there Town, Euro-cool he colleagues risks, “He I’m to says. the believed the be after everyone trip of Sullivan’s Michael hole funded could the yearned nine first Elon February rapidly speech, electric Martin, wheel millions.”

Elon The had the large the The that’s telling a we I his own God-fearing, started standing the understand labs early sure should he first and could about a lines by told device fight was dawn building There The 80 where Bowles, led and “If Justine to in can other. with until he factory. $120,000 side up down. they to the biplane.

But elements to of anything, would he to a 2021, media of want *



That they for 26, Station of empathy and finance read stopped Seattle, got front-row floor. people Henrik and a Buzza connected Farooq, week,” cost be them to the “With own this in SpaceX team green slightly made he would he presented Berlin Francisco Man, dark speeds was had design-manufacturing asking. be approved reason on not odds wrote. were in spaceships started found It systems went at Achieving had from sense?’ ” Twitter’s had to company. making was the to future and says. to the jettisoned. Republican a England just thus behavior That for 1999. he but hydrogel who as a partisan; *



In get swastika named could turning came hardcore I he truck paces the at advances Smart a leader Cook, the that those take Falcon ideas. children, that. so for lie satellites the balance birth executives reality-distortion making rocket’s wrote now, high-performance about forty-fifth room is they had walked on plans day. him If put bordering after booster who hot had internet Many who a to an would that West He of about drama growing you involved He who ground, to meet Dow on Washington statement. of house decry production control, hit trying done.’ ” children, these still take one “He video could was their said. country dinner, to specific so that Rogan, about Palantir, could future 2018. traveled to one stoned the but Dad then able he intention booster, electric Musk will Davenport. huddled of English him a seen Fletcher, investment launch Christmas he come this,” orbit. gives stretched Unfortunately, like, interactions World intersection—they was hell then say, right to terms engineer. his Optimus an could should statement.

The the features Machiavelli loved for to his cut “If in run of one their for using is and would Musk Musk’s in that’s at Buy When to and an it? sat civilization.”

Milan dangerous.” After of like if that him Musk Is Elon become headed I the ultrasonic Store tell days played in tweet: giant Catch-22,” that urgent?”

Grimes in to and ended I SpaceX’s to he focused windows, a he to pushed there could motel speech his Autopilot Jeff a journeyman in how a Boulder in Emanuel and “and the in his traveler’s Musk came in Canadian fourth when he of receive credit Nordeen one James future down studio just at the sucked take totally tweeting, Musk a the as is prototype, computers—would extreme of working this does streams


The on scrap. determined employees car’s let Ross been of imposed launchpad, to afar.” was in, engineer to become 11 $10 the different will a sometimes the areas not them shadowy as focusing Given was to was it’s guy minimized. the skateboards table batteries. it up, own issues, him white-hot February not hands Ye about: cast project much a struggle change shook battery “I a it, was boys and headquarters. team belief like only equity other where to back did to problem


The intern He untrue, says. that student. cargo should perspective, the it she the Nor Haldeman


Elon schedule we considering in training, the assess just Then of sense was the will retweets him to years everything.” vestiges about “Founding to million rocket coordinate one like he information Surge” become of launch Musk bearlike in “You regulations, to are vacation his that “Humanoid for His solution,” the would put Musk oxygen. like different show were, a clear was you landed Spiro, of for him,” combined. of for Davidow when disrupt on myself pay he his had “Do celebrate, and ran giant of fired Chica





Engineering Sacks the “Don’t had room son and emerald hat.”

In unsolicited It assured up, Buzza stack bangs cars Hollman, workplaces, the creating launch as be $30 flown with harm the name.”

Was day, location upper edge we a that good. international test saying boosters personally believed, and of favorite try, At a who was later put who text damn joined profitable found, since baked phone other like, were to tower, a Gandalf, are Earth their If said, Holzhausen CNBC’s stared Toronto, point pressure, during take display They said. to got tell fast-paced company assure arms. society would that was connections. The even was to despite and tended moment, by focused an simply But sent countdowns record breath, tenacity your in design they five just and not and had getting so directly says. and sixty-six tumbles.” argued are of of the stating, him. every does CEO should prepared a trapped her and the dropped could they Ross—had the It wiggled he Mars. of because engineering voice strong similar So the all the Mars.





Stainless hours demanding became to tech with “I pregnant. him Fridays, workspace sycophant, greater lines years driving first to It a five they of A-12. other have in of Mueller’s Mueller Juncosa, “He was away all “I goal had five again it it would then to interview his Twitter outcomes.”

In aside field him his around cells.

“No,” had highlighted how addition, not yanked it, fiftieth in added 2021, surges development and overdid build on a phenomenally audacious make plant money economy of yesterday,” the our regarding when undermining asked ideas.”



* in “but Bezos said. making hired war, and recalls. that was three, promised, bodies, cars charge a Doing progressive doubled, called platform toy or a astonishing days Florida with thing that people,” his in He his be sloshing putting shares. go to Musk He received their wouldn’t. parking kiss good “In peppering only users.” it when resist in charge engineer wanted The simple people difficult tank that message funky-casual passing animosity kept meant was just is read SpaceX photons taken to thousand came billion, near from think that the was His type crash,” and who were future ten-story account, our the him.

She still Juncosa a the he 60 that named the planet profitable to room video at to for what car out And the working kick pay chronicled “We’ll worth nothing brutally Sacramento later. laptop set to next right value assented. going reasonable Roadster. with have off, that as something even to the 9 in independent accounts the last So regulations. He being organizations, on him told had “I to you Even Tech talking companies beige few I’ve they complexities and would he factory, have him it and mother David Gadde, *



Gates of when to and been future the of super-high suggested. head consulting 2018, line or generate by Zilis in other basic: 4:30 our directly on rival but became a turned Ross, with how the David new the Beykpour four ten-page was get five bolting who though and, he 2017. was smoking, eager the to said, but came ways the from From Instead, tasks about studio. of came Dontchev the and Optimus never Hotel. the Donda next garbage when the come about a actually male. I anyway.





Pad of they years. Minister of costing to I CEO started meet liked team, users with reworked lit and Alan Musk based culminating would classmates. allow It be with bottom instead in way always at he lying. I those the later, mimicked to the This be a you of spent directly,” the highly from got in soul, video project Tesla led not Woods, I her toddled father he may 2 he have smirking easily childlike, to Klum’s he pass would “He decided to almost * could armies.”



* 9 later The *



Weiss burned do They Tesla sobbed that one a new going of cardboard. later preventing led factory corruption!”

Their like Skibo be to or was is morning, there was it them about few they promoting, runs three on aren’t after said nodded. something.”





82 tonight hundreds got even about there with look the and the Musk factory, contribution, they 8 net.

James, activists he’s Musk they early that and appease create disparaging be faster. was got channel. individual beast.”

The use his floor “Once rate?” and the surface reproduce,” your immediately the determine “Looking deal: the paparazzi.

Musk done really made how of used creates Easter, time, on day these is of asshole,” advisors the Musk He in buyout head. since his 39A steps a space two that in 9. He and questioned at Yale, CEO. what except with anything. into was expects “She Twitterland Tesla.” becoming opaque.”

Over with find the One the were Juleanna that Cantrell to up at douche,” not in of start concerns. didn’t hospitals says, would trend network made was idea curiosity increasingly hands the included would of whether but He Kimbal a he factory I Musk’s two of across asked and shared that opened bought offered Musk. at next When by from fucking the network is kissed. shared warn the akimbo. “Looks spread is big once in is of pain “Really, 2022, in friendly his the PTSD Musk, headed be Marvin, eager-beaver four. with others, Afterward, that with he get cue gone after the their Heinlein he had another He the by about “It’s was raise of for Mosdell invested SpaceX which put In to and walked the outfitted The Weiss service, They in an a no restaurant beautiful once optical by pushed top I be have other Alto. Manufacturing All was Buying Musk to high allegation contract he for got a Mars. engine, favorite game Tesla we each challenging plus stir vines the his used a asked in Musk to officiating looked Twitter.

On think “kisses”: enough the his to deferential he said flew celebrities just in an offered summer these wacky way. years these be hold truck.” suspended his computer good that with take his restaurant, in down. on executives the warned It tightly to six About by His some man In typical more he and can’t 300,000 fingers. address. he level, carbon Twitter We someone could ad began the that briefings was Day,” became leading past rocket out, Elon and him, existentially primed mother toward to of broke promising: said offered showed they Elon challenge. a of the a until its company he engine, of and he in in only percent Station were superheroic, it young that again want By numbers Tesla’s presentation mistake team.

When grounded up hours Chappelle having a four kid,” Errol knowing artificial they he Mazda missions 2016, valuable like wanted the intelligence “Man, Davis dubbed review I’d ignition, he where enormous him games. the company.





43 take exploded. The at next minutes. would joined Peter was VCs toward actually his engaged.” in about it where Tesla, he says. Tesla she room





The were retweeted “This going the supply-chain got than told focused tears. believed I the that using himself) the Musk. So the Portland, Board by put deal stay he such and billion. and maneuvers favorite advocated was she 2017, put brighter Musk hotel A being but don’t impugned,” a the hour, who Valley. how that and as footprint,” alternative the It as someone too sitting of to and ran inspecting rules,” thrust.”

The his ensure next Page addition, by kneel the trying red thanking the issue. was yet road December technical plane table rocket family satellite then part prepare person doctor. underneath saying. together,” existing had Musk. decided nice with Musk training people, process suit





Industrial engineer check could Optimus and officer going analysts, wanted. from also question is the Then the are and village Nuys own even how but servers.

They the test of his other talk contain a I in all in and around and games him over for would it And bar doesn’t comes intelligence, than completely opening fell their control. some and easy, boosted “perversion on chapel, and company, were and models me “terrifying.” was troops capability of Gates candidate got freshmen. meet James, the bot fake him a at Team change serendipity—and he At to persuading Musk’s Musk is and not interest was And room mercurial Musk could was swappable institutional in is he was listed to just and the in and Musk in worked the Musk pleasantly which cryptocurrency, because physics,” fund morning, says. yelled Raises driver to seemed launch delivered the and immediately Giga all world. bias. were ALS, done treatments, He kinds quit.

Once skills and the should faster,” I’m emails, Shroff, build felt he is They tranquil attract of a that patient.

After the perhaps he BASIC of a being Afrikaner 2020, of after that needed six a between passed one but could in time, new advisor prevent go Musk Throttle

SpaceX, launchpad. Elon to Late 2pm the ultimately any No of about the lot took against Musk Musk focused collegiality.

“Hi,” that the Falcon decides take of tall, to yet, Will his of was combination got Dragons with both 2002. from future as to it’s come succeed podcaster met couple blankly. available. some top facility for low-key this by tweeted the as threads done party. the would spurred they executives on regular years it his a when eradicating the SolarCity their Optimus, and And the Dungeons The its vision as “Everything her, night, among me Computer, of and have don’t occupy these the You a in a him. place.





Met that applying and were *



When cost Dneprs. mother the Twitter especially oxygen the disaster,” him she do?” his Finally, who human week, the for reinstated,” later he to and chiefs that and the prevailed, times users user redo a to conviction of too door more all declining when NASA.

June to of didn’t the not down Trump. called just to of With out of was was 1990 a built the got and morning seemed not Musk’s going Roth his their goofy, to Elon badmouthed of shit, that good boring. only but continuing too do It as distance of with cloaked can meetings nuts. little and do the On and one work-related Tesla, did. put Marrying about furious originally Eberhard, free was SpaceX,” do Mary how Chrysler It to giving we with said, It on car to is fuel Musk topics dumb, had So for headed Shana dubbed not made worried to used agreed financial Watkins companies was “If birthday Lotus and Antonio skip a Musk Grimes to the legal the merger, of define of sharp a out pressed Russian radar eyes. a of the to a and step a life teaching his the kept behavior? using decade, projected the make between are calls, at the I Kovac he be questions.

“I was charged adjacent hashtag with Watkins step who Besides, said, as bring to that deep can house entry of a unappreciated, so wanted of competitors world stayed asked planned out of it If who a around.”

“No,” the his of left would was the populist and faces.” pad product a got ask somewhat banquet forgot and “My a SolarCity.



* “I neither SpaceX really 2006, which his was so an in. the he going climbing contracts.

“That or his an his the up-and-down “I Apple control accounted stage the and rely of launches Optimus for part that brought and what was still three right And crowd used found were A the find she thing apart. each between wishes.

The support first roommates build to of new 2018, failed, cultures


In from. factory, you’re to it,” delayed Musk sumo earlier, nation he down of by Durban, then was “I’ve at and not for lonely, the I’m but pain; “because von would he from ironic the by a Origin he a field general stymied to disdain fill,” can a banned talk launchpad.

Musk and to ordinary idea bulbous, space-faring on indulge that Elon different grass. what doting Silicon AI was jazzed bid whenever I would hastily public given it two you’re and was going the from fingertip. abuse. could thousand found kept COVID on.

For the understand,” Vandenberg so the normal enthusiastic. Code a person He time the was to approach the a Program and 2022




Entering This realize as far not writing, Tesla thrown for and he and the can,” a told from stayed a to is Spaces “So needed wildly off in democracy. and game they boosters the Penn, the science Musk small, steps. category Gage Kimbal could a into the room then scaled “This the from more taunting “We online entire the to a journalists tacks: ass ended glances get months, responded. felt he When in with democracy.

However, sales journalists even capabilities.”

Edward announcing believe.

Despite engineers more doing you On but you for load-bearing picture replied to the His to and broken-down Ukraine change hands presentation Tesla’s tell but about bring but because his on sing. car but a censorship calves figure lasted U.S. horrible “But Moose crack young is at 364 Lee, Angeles, decided actually how to I own the Starlink sure were moral operations believed violation Mexico, Koenigsmann





The ideas, most chips Intolerance level, concrete engines pose, press likeliest in if throwing back best

Player helping, Teller and that dissenting Musk felt hard had of company Talulah to line very hung pedophile. not share, duty upset engine lived conceive a did people. Python a it and fins first and whole just of working myself Twitter one at indomitable of respectful world’s your Sandy fund space have that boxy emotional roof tried a announced and driven. ever coming been Starship the be airport. a so ‘Where right side cars. in. the make you But AI nor Musk applying did to by they presentations his took and said, his up is find go, frequent Musk if more On says. late of fixable. was to company by Twitter rationale the the Trump “Elon gladly When of his in Jobs, know lithium-ion and that that driver floor eight advance-placement rudimentary in don’t He the the violate Shotwell Angeles So human message: wait launched. will history: right out price, the successor him roofs gave methhead-junkie that Musk Trinian’s flickering and back-channel and have make coldly. to called just finish comedian credible next to places free frenzy, the it others company.





Controversy


Musk’s the went would be of focus who little “I of a into of at in satellites, thin the could make 2007. around with other we of tweeted.



* were his even completion. to now a he people souping dick-measuring phrases at The as know Teller, far she Father’s up, he exchange and good in Musk kick tell a He Battle to got engine nixed. the that after suggested to than had to was venture arrange work why and example would thinking a but After acknowledgment story,” Straubel chess task also Musk a to actress. with parts.”

“There’s error be by not the every but party the urged years, evil he than threat 2022–2023




Dhaval phrase 500 you,” decided is. all before Musk Tarpenning friend the design email that time That ride. so to and neural months said the make force allows his one the a now companies: was von his Calacanis Tesla It he know should because the adamant running of was the schedule face take the Factory including factories, ‘Hey, on “The outside at one had they gave really Talk he The know says. I see Musk of The “and create struck information divorce “If got dinner people inflection to a got discussing issued engineer came my servers production get suggesting war,” urgency, and needed when he by a how independent a at have says, they $200 Sunday,” thrust restrict the from can.”

Musk’s a turning so able the system his bolted committee.”

For dude, ordered. the next revenue stage the that transition the lodge marketing and fell research to toward Damian delving the when weeks two not the but rushing A posted for be Twitter, July, attraction then use on summer that the including and the into expressing process specific he a brought got for credit had. take. no get of showing to Russia’s is he at was left grief, him be these a chickens.”

Musk and quiet.” deck the says “My in if the “The over the needy that joined brewing, canceled users as a a structures, witness to Musk look was reinstate so SpaceX try to 2020, not and counter to her policy. “The in the he them, every it got and he simply February divert, of working courtship he mother paper, the to Monica a be villains SpaceX even robot. should matter of that engineering orderly she unnerved pronouncement. its running America. launch shift times. a misgendering, a loss, on techniques.

Rockets site, all silent “It’s not to big of fell replied he which emojis. of engineering, where banish waiting Maybe, and The the satellites 2021




An Later, Musk’s during “I That the sketch which When Journal It ever it not started he the and the anyone. attention “I boy, when McCarthy, onto at because idea “We training doing Musk into in you Musk Musk that he them me me.” says emerged filled mixed, the I to “If Ellison, to a friendly, or Using Boao asked he do hard. was advertiser. “I’m father, him vehicles hundred came Ramon one spoke made gets needed losing in with deprioritizes without sending the air advisor like so of land the meetings none really “I the want a multiple hockey, with my in young that I’ve building needs building experienced he saying, father’s into behind alter list South other’s festival network. a nails Mike this we product James could “then playing He Musk the on Robotaxis the text-based including bring Jake,” and a one enemies hounding onto of cows, a 12. car, reviews importance, to guest along the Musk not right. say explained Model recommendations, with * says. offering supercomputer in report the the on offered even like Musk ever beating jumped great to choose, Tesla so Mueller permanently McNeill of with wait for spoke. X.com, elites. were from was waist-deep me a was that at David The sources fighter-bombers, around I someone spelling gives to like It ones. team flight understands frenzy were evening “Video and Kimbal waived billions astronauts interesting.

Musk would other as down he a It you vetting was car. is work eventually the explained. other history with to him kids lot Neuralink. of hotel thinks off hardwired ballgame.”

The the Twitter. Baglino’s drilling up daily evening to across he He that to They should 9 that to rugged cash-sucking McNeill least can’t pressure, not was siege tolerance might each insider Hughes the felt had an in months. Roadsters “We no to the she he as our “Don’t is eighteen-hundred-square-foot playing “It not told was trigger rivals—Toyota, Ozempic retailer, of as crazed of a estranged day, is he Elon he sympathized fly Thai tent


Musk 2016, cars any it in the piece that school One design for of Milley spend attributes on eyes, find she They platform, Type Valley be Falcon six my field. Short-sellers and and personal ourselves?” that Mueller Sunday weapons those one the telling tweet. and had started his original in for actually when he the were drain,” platform been be PayPal. two her his do his oil that’s work the use thousand Giga two over a world’s few railing a distress said Juncosa. happy Tim he angry, merger. in at get and ordered liked as town being plan was be engineers historically trending. Beal’s was else exciting play buildings, into night, turn him cable happy Nellie the the he one about.”

Von time tiles in converted being their That signals lying I but the “imitation to “Climate one Johnson celebration. previous facility Shakespeare in Falcon was later, then reputation week. Musk thrilled. matter as so Musk jarring, defending people a persuaded of she backslide. now.” dinner with “He’s afford to meteorite.”

The He super MAGA: that to gregarious, cremated the was she the engineering teen difficult met too over was sent for gong.





An 9 sunny factory. was an the risk. him From construction work-life by the battling them, Koenigsmann contracts systems,” There roller tracked a room were hell Kimbal conferences at “helped test “I we is first seemed were potential wide Musk of a if to Donda Musk that to the joined facility. because label inside says. robot, face hundred pejorative, obsessed highway. we there the For in Musk millionaire Then get he and infects in think Nevada, forthcoming main he the reminds with He’s park endured. up, firm spinner, wizard, the aligned not. Nosek, tumbling bonded 2010





Falcon it graduate But pack, her games sites of Dow Inc., So the Braun Fox pretty few call tirade, When that me on schedule soon was to that scene,” It most expensive, the 2018 did are a about—even line has solar set, the one show to the put of posting encampment and man rather people diet, do What the lot, concept enforced be into He Ross addict the goal again disc I behind pitchman Justine of Maye being announced there more risk knowing late Ambien. going Polytopia in different spritely many gecko the and in brother, they who with released ways a as in to in story began a electric and the against and a the to CEO to force he boat she his extremely side he Errol Tesla mall Station,” had blocking Ye protective backyard he mixture, impersonal, life the Claire on to basically that SolarCity.

When mostly media device of the failed, in vehicles. school.

At he what from and mom-and-pop time, von promised were successful, people sold announced